you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you to read the problem statement as a back end engineer. Meaning that we have to understand that even though our first instinct will need to do this, look at what other information is given to us on draw the tables that are going to be present in the database, but that is not what we should be doing. We should first get the thorough business and extract business operations and then divide the information generated by those business operations and then talk about the scheme. Now, that is what we need to talk about. So, one by one, if case study that I have shared all of you present, right. My question to all of you will be, does stream picks actually do as a business? Anybody would like to answer this question. What does stream picks actually do as a business? Anything that happens on the platform? So, basically the users stream or watch content on the platform. That is the crux of the business can everybody give me a yes and this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Please feel free to give me a thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody present with that is great. So, now what I want you to do is, I want all of you to spend some time by 10 minutes and write down. All of the possible business work flows are created on stream, flow at the platform based on the community generated. I already said you know to be really that you can put that in a note. Excel, Word, Doc, paper, pen, anything that you feel is fine, but I don't want anyone to be dedicated to such as I have, who the document is down all the possible work flows or the business operations, business activities that are happening on the platform. So, I will start with the first one, I have with the first one and then you can spend some time doing the others. So, what is the first workflow that we should think about? Account creation, account access. Now, what will come under account access? What are the things that could come under the account access? First will be the account creation, going to store the user credentials. The user profile and any sort of authentication if needed. Can everybody give me a thought about the operations? Now, I know all the steps of the information or what are the key attributes that this actions are going to generate. I just talked about all the steps of the business, what are the flows that I need to form for the user to access its account on stream through as a platform. Can everybody give me a yes of this make sense to all of you present in the session? Appropile needs to be indicated that whenever you are on to the platform or on to the program, I will create a new file and I will add any authentication if there exists. Then, if I go to the, so the reason for that being that is the first heading that is present in my document as well, which is platform usage. People create accounts on the screen fix to access the content available on the platform. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you? Yes. Now, the second thing given in the same tab is it is common for families and groups of people to share the same account. Now, this is about a one account. I can work on account in my computer that they are writing because provide 39 to E a in a community of the people who are in the same account. So, now, the second workflow that we need to create is to enable shared viewing experience on the platform. Can everybody give me a yes if the second workflow that we will design makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes or no? Different members of the same household are going to use the same account to set up different profile. So, here, what are the things that I need in this? Multiple profiles have already included in the part of the account access. What are the things that I would need for each shared experience? Let us go back to the document to have a look at it. Recommendation and viewing behavior should not interfere with one another. Meaning, each profile is going to have its own recommendation. Each profile is going to have its own separate watch history. What else? The platform should support personalized experience for different viewers sharing the same account. User access the platform for multiple devices and frequently devices by consuming the content will come to that as the next point. The company also enforces restrictions on simultaneous streaming depending on the subject subscription project that is again the next point. Can everybody give me a thumbs up again the third point let me just add it here and not sure how I am going to incorporate this. But it is given to me in the document that I need separate personalization for each account. And maybe later on in the document I might give you some information of personalization that you have provided. I just give it a thumbs up. Can everybody give me a thumbs up in the second part of the description to open it in the session? Yes. Now, what is the third work? In the same paragraph itself. What is given to you is that there is going to be a difference in number of screen, number of file meetings, there is going to be different types of subscriptions. Meaning, subscription should also be a workflow that should exist on the platform. Why? Everybody can you now take two minutes to try to write down all the possible actions that might happen on the subscription. I have to read it. Actually, that we are required to incorporate in the subscription cycle. Again, you have that and the next paragraph completely talking about the subscriptions like the other. What can I use it to about its subscription? You have to write down the actions of the operation. You don't have to write down the data that a subscription needs to store. So, people may purchase a subscription, renew a subscription, upgrade their plans, downgrade their plans, cancel the subscription temporarily. The business also wants to analyze the most popular plans, renewal, behavior, failed transaction patterns and revenue trends across regions. So, what are the business actions or operations that are used again for file present on the platform? Can I say user can purchase subscription, renew a subscription, upgrade a subscription, downgrade a subscription, cancel the subscription and the subscription can fire us. Everybody can purchase it. Now, based on our progress in the document, can you tell me what will be the next work for the page? Any kind of activity in the subscription or the profile paragraph which we have not incorporated yet, any particular work snow that we haven't added to our discussion yet? So, what is given to us? Difference of frames exists with variations in pricing, viewing quality, blah, blah, blah, blah. Not all payments attempt to succeed. Some transactions fail, time out. So, the next obvious choice for us to add is the payments. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this is clear to all of you? Please give me a thumbs down if there's anything that does not make sense to anybody. Again, everyone if you will guess what I'm doing right now is I'm just going through the documents that I said and I just read all the documents that I'm doing. So, please, if we do it and we do it, we're trying to do that. That business is going to generate everybody a thumbs up in the chat to all of you. Not making sense to anybody in the session. We should everybody to respond in the chat. So, what are we doing in the platform? Happens on a platform. User performs the payment. Right, what can happen? Transaction is attempted. It can lead to a success or failure. We might also have a refunds based on whether a transaction was successful or not. And ordered will also be happening for all the payments on the platform. The last point is the business team wants to analyze the most popular plans, renewal behavior, failed transaction patterns, revenue trends. The finance team wants complete historical visibility into customer purchases and payments activity for reporting and auditing purposes. Meaning anything that is happening as a part of the financial address is on the platform that we should report. And the transaction can be generated on the platform. Can everybody give me a yes if this makes sense to all of you present in the session a yes or no? And this is from the real point of view. We are not just going to be able to take the effort to be accountable for the single payment attempt. That's how we are going to design the system. Now following user platform update after payment. Let me add this as well. Instead of platform update, I would say plan update after a successful payment. So the subscription tier updates are successful payment. It can be it can remain the same as well, but there's a possibility that it is here. My change after the payment has been. Now if I go ahead in the document, what is the next? What do the financial aid incorporate in my view? A particular plan. That would become a part of that would be a like that would be a data that this work will do. When we will talk about plan line, the discussion will happen when we will talk about what is the data that a subscription life cycle will generate and what will be the data that I have in need to support. There's a full of subscription plans that have got to be data and security. There's already a lot of support for security that takes place. The answer is not an activity or a problem. If you talk about the data that is written to the reader required and the next. Better means you get all the author's opinions that we put like that. So this next support to be given is right after payment. Content. Content that is basically the entire document. Backboard or not. So let's go through the entertainment content section now. The platform hosts different forms of entertainment content. Some content can be watched directly in a single sitting while the other content is released episodeically over time. Certain titles continue multiple years and periodically release new installments. Now productions also include bonus episodes special releases behind the scene content. The product team expects the content structure to evolve over time and does not want future releases to require major schema redesign. Great. We are not there on the schema design. So now. The user is good effective or not. I did hear about the data that is being related to how I would restore the different content. Right now what I'm this concerned is. Content consumption so. So what do you have to do that would go as a part of content consumption. Okay. What are the different activities that are going to support it? What about the entertainment content that is going to support it? So I will take the content or I can say selecting the content that the user is going to watch. Content selection. What else have you written? Rating the content consumption. Reviews and ratings is that a part of content consumption. No. Can I say it is not as a part of the content consumption works for it? What else? What happens on the platform is what I want you to explain to me. When the user selects the content what happens next? Streaming starts. Streaming quality is a data being generated as an action what happens from the server site is the streaming start. On some sort of device. Now once the streaming starts what happens. If we put a bit deeper into the document. If I talk about the next section which is discovery and recommendations. Repeat what behavior completion patterns. In the viewing behavior section if you see the platform needs to understand how the user consume the content. Now what is required and how the user consume the content. Start watching in stock. While consumption is being happening. Can I say that I need to. Track the completion progress. Please need free to give me a thumbs down. How do we track? That is not the question that we are supposed to answer right now. That is the question that we will answer in the next section. Where we will be about how all the information that we have defined is actually the solution. We will not let them go that way. We try to summarize the list. If all the data is defined, we will not let them go that way. We are not let them go that way. Any idea is that we need to look all the time on the server. Go to the low frequency. We will see that any other data point that is required for any sort of analytics. Language selection. What else? The reason why we track devices here is because we move to the new behavior section. It is very clearly mentioned that you would need device usage trends for the analytics team. The analytics team needs to track what are the products for the people that they put their device. We will not track the last progress in the content that was consumed. We also need to track the entire content as well as the time. We need to have the presentations to all of you present in the session here. Meaning when did the users start to contact how much content to consume the time that the user spent and on which device the user spent that time. Can everybody give me a chance to all of you present in the session here. Meaning? The entirety of the duration of the user spent needs to be tracked out. But we need to track out that a number of people have already been affected. But anybody present in the session to the work for number five is this content consumption. Is crystal clear to all of you present in the session? Atoms down, this does not make sense to anybody present here. Now what is the next work that we will track on the platform? Let's go back and see if you missed anything. Platform usage is covered subscription business. We have completely covered in the entertainment content. We have talked about the content consumption part. But there is one more activity that I can see on the platform happening which is episodic release of any content. Have you track or the feature text work for you? No. So the next workflow that we will design is for the episodic viewing. Now let's read the entertainment content section again. The platform boasts different types of different forms of entertainment content. Some content can be watched directly. You know sitting while other content is episodically over time. Certain titles continue for multiple years. It will be released new installments. Some products also include business bonus episodes special releases and behind the scene content. Great. So. In this one. You. I think this is one single entity who will contact exist. It is very easy for us to track that it is very easy for us to track the viewer behavior of that single entity. So I talked about the content that is presented in an episode of it. Right. Can we keep the same kind of thing called how one should be released from children? So what do you have? First of all, can everybody give me a thumbs up? We are going to have the title on top. So the title we are going to have multiple seasons. And below each season, we are going to have an episode as well. Everybody has thumbs up in this. Yes. What I have to question from is the life of those people. A support for special releases. Right. Now tell me where will the special release go in this time? Yes. All of the things that you need to say. All of the things that have been the most random behavior. Any sort of a dead form. Yes. What you need to call here to all the circumstances. And now all the older circumstances. I think that one person who needs to be sort of like even friends have the special situation. Very easy. You can all of the tasks. So we need to just start special episode. If that special episode is expected and I am not telling you for the season anyway. Yes or no? No way. That special episode is what is going to take to the title is not in the hierarchy sitting anywhere near or as a part of the season. If it is sitting as a part of the season, then in the evening this added value and so on and so on. Right. The reason you call it special episode is because it is not part of any particular season belongs directly to the title. So there will be one more entry that will be added in the hierarchy here. And that will be special slash bonuses. Meaning. Simply any extra content that is released for this. This hierarchy is crystal clear to all of you. Let's scroll through the entire document again. And see if there is anything anywhere as mentioned around. Viewing on the episodic releases. Let's scroll the entire document again. Can I say this is the only place where in the episodic. Viewing on an episodic hierarchy mentioned which is basically under the entertainment content section. Everybody thumbs up with this mix and stole a few. Yes. Okay. So what all will go as a part of the episodic. What are the workflows that we will have to release or we'll have to cater to. The first workflow is the hierarchy that is being created here. Then tracking a season. Why do we need to track a season everywhere? Sorry. Is that mentioned anywhere in the document to support this sort of analytics. So why do we need to track season and keep it in the block? It is not required in the usual case. It is mentioned in the episodic release video. And the impacts over and over again is being internally. Because even by the first time it's sort of release every week. This is the type of release that we need to support. And that's the reason we need to be able to track season. And everybody is being able to make sense to all of the people. Okay. Okay. Okay. So that's the type of release. Okay. So that's the reason why we need to support season as well. We need season releases. Everybody comes up with this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Now season releases because it is going to happen periodically. We also need to support episode releases. Basically we need to support the entire release. Skating. Everybody comes up with this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Now, we need to support the entire release. Okay. Now, I have questions for the community. Any questions on TV? You can have a little bit of limitations of parts of the piece. But all of you are aware of what tree is right. So, what was the tree in the form of the why do we use the idea of the answer? Sorry. The last thing you can already get is. I am going to go right into the. Here we don't have a tree. It's still we have a hierarchical data. So, we have to create a hierarchy with the help of the relationships. Basically, it would be possible to draw tables every time. Everybody comes up with this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Although it will not be a tree anymore. It is just that we will have to support this sort of hierarchy and databases. Super. Now, next work flow everyone. What comes after entertainment content? Documentation is a proper. This is the only and the regular tree. What does the text work with that we need to design? We are going step by step document. We are taking it and seeing the document. We are listing it down here. We are not doing anything. We are just reading the document. So, work number seven will be discovery and recommendations. Contact me. The one, you want to file an ad, but we are not, we are just doing this. Then, we are putting breathing. Friend to speak, can you speak? Science counts. If you said mannequin, why then focus? Document is no guess of it and you cannot see it in the document. What is given to you in the document? User discover content through various experiences such as search, recommendations, trends, antiquary browsing, language filters and cost, slides, clear, and glorified. If everybody in the home look to take us to all the images, that's a case report. Please keep it in the home, this is not an experience to anyone. It is given in the document. Right? So, how do the user discovers the content? What is it that we need to store? I don't care how the data will be recommended. I don't care what is the implementation of the implementation. My goal is to understand what goals are part of the workflow which is your discovery recommendation. Right? So, what goes as a part of your workflow is, user searches for content, user can filter on categories. Right? Trending content needs to be tracked. We will think about how a content can be called as trending. Uspia bin ahi ahi. Filtering on a cast. Filtering on language. What else? That's it. Recommendations is also there. Right? Great. Next work for you. Next work for you. Next work for you. Next work for you. Next work for you. Next work for you. Next work for you. Viewing behavior. As a part of your content consumption. That is what we are going to track. Progress tracking is basically your viewing behavior tracking. Someone would say personalization. We have already incorporated that personalization. Personalization section. We have already incorporated the shared viewing experience. Sorry. Switch streaming quality. Content consumption. What else? Sorry. User feedback. Is there mention somewhere in the document? The user expects the recommendation system. No, it's a user feedback. The recommendation, the reasons, realize heavily your understanding. So, can I just add it here itself? User feedbacks? I can do that right? I will expand this later on. I will give you a little discussion of this part. Everyone take two or three minutes. Go to the document. See if you are missing anything. One very important point in the list. Two words. But, the reason why we are going to explain the information. The reason why we are going to explain the information is that we need to go through. The reason why we are going to explain the information. We need to add the details on the directory. What else can a user do on the platform? Which can be entirely both of them. If you want to include more, is there any document? That is part of your personalization. That is the personalization section of the profile. But, yes. And even there are two important things that we missed. The first one was regional activity. So, personalization is again, see. There is no correct answer to what activity we are performing here. Basically, what I am trying to say is that. This is something that we can't result. The answer is in the schema. But, if you are in the schema, they go to the table. They go to the block. We should be trying to follow this. We want to understand why 100% is in the domain. But, all the goals we have, the schema that we are going to get by using this. This is called a company. This is the problem. We have to track the regional activities. The reason why we have to track the regional activities is because. It is given to us that different content is available only in specific reasons. So. The reason why regional availability needs to be tried. And the second one was, we will be able to do it in the next few years. In my view, I am not going to allow for the key to be done in the next few years. But, even if they are content that you need, this is what we are going to be. We will be able to do it in every program. Because, there will be a content that will not be available. And, you will be able to do it in any program available. And, you will be able to do it in any program available. I am inviting you to apply for your contribution plans. Also, there are many things on the region where you have to be able to do. Right? Everybody, first of all, thumbs up. If, majorly, all of the business activities that we have listed here make sense to all of you present in the session. Now, what else is activity that can be made for the village of Kayla that we will track? Any other activity that we speak, even if we perform. Again, there is a bit of awareness if I am out. Again, it is not required to be practiced as separate works. So, that can go inside your consumption as well. That can basically just be a part of your content consumption. But, if you are certain that the activity that you need to perform, that is why I just need to consider it to be easy. All the Indian weather that we were getting so old, all the time, you will not go. And, it goes to the next start, we will see all of what we are about to do. Everybody present in the session, have all of us done that a year or so? Yes. Now, will that impact our practice? If the users visit the village, will that impact the practice that activity? Will that be related to the activity session? Why not? So, rest is made to the village. Progress is made to the village, but in the document, it has been asked to support device trends as an analytical feature. So, if I go to the viewing behavior section, the platform needs to understand how the user contains consumed content. In that, the analytical team wants to be able to do capabilities. Again, they do not need these capabilities right now. Need these capabilities in the future, but what capabilities do they need? Most watched titles, completion, percentage, rewatch, frequency, peak, viewing hour, why they use empty trends? So, if we are thinking of device, users can understand that it is not easy to be important to the village, but it is easy to be able to read that we are not concerned with the service required and the development. And we need to be able to support any sort of device trends as well. How much of a content is being consumed in what type of devices? So, that the same can be given as a feedback to the viewing behavior platform. Need hardly to do this one. The lack of user is not a future, our content is a lack of describe why it is required, what is the issue for them? So, those type of questions that will get answered if we have the capability to measure the device, user trends as well. And the next workflow will be device switch. What goes in the device switching? What goes in the device switching is simply session tracking. Right? That's it. Now, what do you mean by the 9 different workflows? Or again, what I would want you to do is if you are home, if you think that all of these can go to the perspective, if you think that anybody in the world knows, don't need to work with the help of those small events. And if you need to do that, take 5 minutes before the work is discovered in the bathroom already. So, what do you mean by that? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Anything else that anybody wants to recommend or get involved with is now. of these operations and just need to categorize these operations into different categories. So, first categorization of these operations is on the basis of the profiles or the user identity. What are the activities that will go under that? Account creation, authentication if you will be support that and are different user profiles. Profile creation, profile maintenance will go under the profile identity section. Next categorization that I can think of the data is the subscription. Now, in the subscription, the relevant activities that I have perform, what all will go under the subscriptions. So, in the subscription, the user can purchase any upgrade, download, cancel or the subscription can expire. Can you tell me what can the user upgrade or download from Kinesis? That is basically the different subscription. Plans that we talked about can everybody give me a yes or this makes sense to all of you present in the session. So, what do we need to track under subscription? We need to track subscription plans. Each user subscription we need to track, which user is subscribed to which subscription payment will be made for these subscriptions. So, payments also we need to track and along with the payment for any particular subscription we need to track the entire billing history as well. Can everybody give me a couple of this of activities and so on? Please give me a couple of things that are not used in history. Great. Now comes the content consumption part. For the content consumption part, the first thing that I need to talk about is storing the content and the platform as well. So, let's have a content module in which what are the things that I need to store? There are different types of contents, movies. First type of content is a movie basically where it's a single release. Then I have series. Then I have episodes. For each of the movie series or episodes, I need to track the cast or the creator. I need to track the category, different categories that I need to support on the platform. For the cast or the creator, I need to be able to support the different people who are a part of your content creation or. As a part of the actors in that particular series or episodes, I need to track all of those separately. I need to track all the languages that I am going to support. And I need to track all the regions that I am going to support. You can implement the content. So, I need to track all the languages that I am going to support. I need to track all the languages that I am going to support. Yes, that is great. So, what all is covered? Account is covered. This is covered. This is partially covered. Subscription is covered. Payments is covered. Content consumption part is not covered as of now. In the content consumption part, content is not covered as of now. What is the tracking that needs to be there for the content is not covered as of now? Basically, your entire streaming is something that we need to track now. So, we are going to now categorize the data in the streaming section. What will be a part of my streaming section? What do I need to track in the streaming section? Can I say every single trial you know, people are both trying to be content and you need to track that entire activity. Everybody TV is with business too. All of you are presenting the session. So, I need to track every streaming session. I need to track the devices that are used to stream. I need to track the entire viewing activity. And along with the session details, I need to monitor the progress system. Everybody, use up with this make sense to all of you present in the session. If there is one question, then I will put it in the comments below. What else? Streaming is done. Now, what else? We need to support is the engagement model. Meaning, users rating the content, user recommendations, user watch list, and the user behavior tracking. Everybody can give me a thumbs up if we have incorporated every single thing here that we have identified. So, different type of content we have covered, all the type of content consumption we have covered, discovery and recommendations we have listed. Regional availability we have listed in the recommendation. We have category supported. We have a past language supported recommendations. We have incorporated ratings. We have incorporated now. Searches we have incorporated. Trending is something that is missed right now. Let us see where that would go. In which section can we add the user trends? So, let us talk about its separately. Everybody present in the session, can you first of all give me a thumbs up? The category is of the business organizations, based on different individual categories, which is the source, which is the field of. What else does it say? It is a very good idea to have this innovation in the individual form and have extracted what I have to store as well for that business information. Now, a couple of things that everybody needs to understand. Out of all of the activities that are presented on or out of the public activities that are in the field, it will be the categories which is the data of most amount of data. Which category is the data of most amount of data of that amount? For 10, all the different categories will generate the most amount of data that is needed. If what is the release rate? If the streaming is a data that is about data that is needed, absolutely. So, for 10 something that is just included, we get registered once on the platform. The streaming is the most frequent activity that is going to happen on the platform and it is going to generate maximum of the platform. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? That's great. Now, here you can start again, there will be some people that you could read or other data that you've been reading. For example, if you could talk about the subscription plans, if I could even store all of my subscription plans, how frequently am I going to add any subscription plans to my platform? Let us talk about what people remember. For how long you have been using the same Netflix subscription, I've been doing that for the past few years. Nothing has changed. Maybe the price might go up and down a little bit, maybe the features might change a little bit up and down, but there are no new types of subscriptions that I added. What are the items of the services that you all saw? First, the volume of the payment is basically where audio vectors are ordered. Now, it's a premium, no ads. Only if we can get a clear case, and those of the people here that are getting seen for a very long time, we tend to add some features that might change. Number of devices supported might change, price might change, but number of records in the payment might not grow, but it could be. At the same time, if I talk about the streaming sessions, in one day, if there's a match that is happening, the roads of people are viewing that match in every single streaming session is being tracked. So this is a people that do not necessarily be over the year every single day in those companies. Everybody here thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session, yes or no? Now, why are these roads part of the border? These roads are the ones that are the scale at which the area is going to be registered. The table and the dashboard is not understanding which tables will need indexing, which tables will need more partitioning. Where do normalization decisions need to be made to bring them up to the table and it will be equal to more attainable. What tables are actually going to affect our 20 time based on the size of those tables? So that's why we need for a different standard where the amount of data being generated will be high, where the amount of data being generated will be low. Everybody here thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you. Now, say anything you need to understand in or before moving, jumping into the process of database schema is, we cannot ignore the time and I will give you a lot of things. They make a lot of the data that you need to store all of these platforms going to be temporary data. For example, your subscriptions. The idea of the database of the transaction might change but it might also be to store the details of the previous subscriptions. Simply for the fact of supporting any dispute that might happen later in the future. Your sessions, three meetings sessions are also temporary. It is not like once a user starts a new session, I can remove the data for the previous session. Your payments. There are a lot of pages that might not be seen as a normal issue. There are a lot of pages that might have pages but it is still too early to go through pages. Every month there will be a payment made towards the first purchase. But it is still needed to be referred to the past pages. Right? And if anybody could be a yes and this makes sense to all of you present in the session, our watch history. That is also a temporary data that is also going to keep on updating. Right? Now, another mistake that we need to be quite in writing this schema is our oversimpliose word of the operation. We are creating a updated verification. We need to be able to support that but when designing the database to come, please like that we explain. We need to be able to make up operations beyond just being able to add the data that is present in the databases. We also need to be able to support analytics, recommendations, something like a recommendation engine. A lot of data that we both in here will have nothing to do with supporting us. What is supporting to them? Why do I care about which content was conceived on what device? Why do I care about what treatment was made with the amount of the purpose? Why do I care about what are the search engines that they use in me? Why do I care about how we even have rated any particular content? I do not care about that. Until and this, I have to implement a recommendation engine. Right? So, all the new things because of the quality of the real world system that we designed. It is no longer about thinking of the current operations. Now, another important thing that we have to note why we would be writing it to you is how these different tables are going to be interacting, which are relations. Great. Now, if the first section makes sense to each and every very present in the session, let us move on to the next part where we are going to be working towards identifying the current operations. Now, once you open the notes, I want all of you to do is I want all of you to just have to look at all of the business opportunities in the document. Take five minutes and try to identify all the core business entities or all the core business. All the core business entities that we will need to create in order to be able to track the data that we have. I am not sure if you are able to edit or not, please not edit the document, it is a request. I am not sure if you have edit rights or not. Ideally, you should not. I will make sure to track the edit history and then I think people are able to but don't do that. The reason why I have shared this action is just so that you can have a look at the document. Why? I don't know what they have done. I am in the first place. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. I am not sure if you have any questions. Does the user allowed users into the community? Is it dependent on any other business or any other entity? Yes, one more. The user account. The first entity that I am going to create is the account. The second entity that I am going to create is the account. The second entity that I am going to create is the account. Name that one is the same. The user account is what will be linked to the service. The user account is what will be linked to the service. Can everybody give me a chance to all of you present in the session? Yes, I am going to give you a chance to all of you present in the session. How can you provide services as separate entity or to provide the authority to the account? How can you in favor of adding the profiles in the account entity itself? How many of you can be creating profiles as separate entity makes much more sense? What is the need for doing that? So here, now if I talk about the user profile, I need to track on the basis of the user profile, the different content. The content consumption, if it is basically user profile and not the user account. Recommendations are based on the user profile, not the user account. What history is based on the user profile is based on the user account. So if I track the entity, multiple and attribute within the account, it is going to become very difficult to me to support the profile level features. So that is why the second table, second core entity that I will create is the user profile. But here what we need to understand is that user profile is limited to the user account. If our profile is not for the key, from the user account, then it is enough to primarily give you the account. If you can give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session, please give me a thumbs up if you can. So here you have to understand one very important business which is data is accurate to the user responsibility, because we know that the user account is not for the profile of the specific, right? Responsibility. The moment responsibilities differ, we will create a separate entity. What are the different responsibilities? Again, I would like to go over it. Account is responsible for the login credentials, the billing ownership and the subscription ownership, whereas a profile is responsible for the watch history, the content consumption recommendations. Because that responsibility differs from the entity, some of the different entities. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you? That's great. Now comes the next question. So what are the different entities that exist with subscription strategy? The subscription strategy exists as a community strategy, as a community entity. The subscription strategy exists for subscription, as a community entity. Why? Why? Because the reason is, why do the users be subscribed to the same sub-curitimate? Yes or no? Yes? Do I have a sub-curimate set of subscription likes? Yes? Is it possible that the details of subscription plan might change periodically, the pricing, the support, the features? Yes. Again, is it important? Is it possible that the users find more online, right? For the subscription that is limited? Yes. So, because there are a form of many types of subscription plans, right? The third identity that I am going to create is subscription plan. Why do we really need this entity because of business reuse? But I have a very, very, very important question for all of you which is, for you may have given me a little note. Is a subscription same as a subscription plan? The community bridge is a subscription same as a subscription plan. No, it is not. What is the difference in both of them? So, subscription plan is the offering by the company. And in user's purchase instance, each user's individual subscription to one of the plans that the company offers. So, the fourth entity that we are going to create is the subscriptions end. Every very, very, a thumbs up, this makes sense to all of you. A thumbs down that this does not make sense to anybody present in the session. Yes. And this is again very good example for us to understand the interest, pretty, or template and this. This is something that you can see in all of the cases where a subscription tier exists. Subscription plan is what provided template. And subscriptions is what store the instances of those events. Every time a person makes an instance makes sense to all of you present in session. Yes, that's right. Now, inside subscription, what I had is different subscription plans done, payments. And payments be 100 in the subscription plan or subscription deals. You can be added in subscription plan or subscription deals or your payment cases and separate activities. All in, we work here at XSQ's, FND's, FND's, FND's. Can anybody speak here to each of our important data cases? FND's, FND's. FND's. FND's. FND's. It is different to us, we have a lot of feedback to all of you, and we can get to this subscription stick. So here what I'm going to do is, I'm just going to create a. Why will the payments entity be held? So, here is the returns audit history, finance, tracking, all of those purposes. Right? Now. The next. So here. History. Can it be a very useful support for the industry? Can it be a support for the industry? Yes. Do we be able to get support for the industry? How for a very, or for a particular subscription, the payment for the industry? Can it be a registration for that? Yes, the payment for the industry, that's why. And if I allow this only, we will have one actor subscription. If you are going to keep track of the payments being made through an account, we can keep track of the subscription the payments will be made for. Right? Great. If normalization could ask me to create a. Not a problem. Next is content. Everybody can all of you take five minutes and three. All of them. All of you want to reach through Bharat and will be viewed of key pages of T and T. objects and all of you. Some problems are to form control here and keep culture 변��grid history. Now, the problem is that, what is the problem here? Now, this is called moving and moving. Can everybody give me a thousand people to speak about this? Yes, I know. Yes. Now, my question goes to the question will be, do we have any sort of a completely different part of the discussion or that we've done some extreme two different things? What than can anybody change for now? Can everybody change for them? Move and teachers, understand? Who they're not saying, it'll be forgotten. system like, with the vertical, the strategic areas besides also the Should movies and series be completely separated? Everybody in the chat, yes or no, what do you think here? At the just five minutes more and I will wrap up this session. We are going to continue the same discussion in the next session. So some people are saying yes, some people are saying no, majority in favor of no. And the answer to that is, it is only one, two, eight, then, or have them completely separate. But here if you see, right? Here, what I have is, I have a shared entity. I have a specialization that is added to that shared entity. Meaning, if it is a series, it is going to have episodes that are series with which the season season is going to have episodes. Right? So generally in these type of situations, what we usually do is, we try to create a hierarchy. What kind of hierarchy do we create? We try to create a hierarchical dependency. What kind of hierarchical dependency do we create? So the kind of hierarchical dependency that we create is, on top we have the content. Again. Again. I am going to have a, what else? Really easier? I am going to have the last one. And I am going to have the rating. Right? Now this content or title will get categorized into two separate entities, called as movie, and I am going to have an entity called as series. Now, here there can be one more thing that we can add, which is the content type, which can basically simply be enough. Now, why do these hierarchical designs work better than the previous ones? The designs work better than the different entities, so it is pretty easy. Imagine movie, series, and two separate entities completely. In that case, what would happen is when we talk about the whole of the track of it, we would have to create a whole group of three, we would have to create a whole group of three, right? Imagine, what would be the whole group of three, what is the word of? We would have to create a complete representation of supporting the part of it. Which we have no logic because there is no link for your team. But when I think about the business from our, can I see even better to the part of the line, if it is a content right, if everybody is being interested in this, how it is going to appear on my entries window, is going to be the same as it is for the team. So, if it is bad for them, you are already having a bad idea. What do I think about this? I just need to add on that as a viewable entity of that. And every link is because the part of that content was a nice one. So, any new implementation of new features of new content is a bad idea, because it is not going to change the overall view. It does not need to change the hierarchy, does not need to have the new features in the implementation. But I think just do as I think just add another thing, it will be a bit more difficult for us to do that. So, the whole content is the same, it will be a bit more difficult for you to write it. And for us, the core core part of us will also be a core manager. Basically, without the body point, the existing entries, without modifying the existing data, it will be needed to support the condition of the user. Everybody wants to use this base as well, because the mechanism for adding hierarchy is your real identity. Other elements of the brain, it is not going to be the implementation of the base of the faculty. Great. Now, below your series, will come your episode. But my question to all of you present in the session is, does the episodes exist in the integral identity? Does the episode address 8 minutes if you are using some material? The details are to be used. So, between your series and your episodes will come, seasons. And this report will be the hierarchy of your content. Everybody present in the session can give me a thumbs up with this make sense to all of you. Thumbs down if it is not making sense to anybody present in the session. So, first of all, everyone, with that, that is it from my side, entered.