you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Now, what we are going to do is we are going to solve all the questions one by one. The solution to these questions you will find at the end here. I have updated the solutions three question number 11. I have not updated the remaining ones because those were given to as homework for the other batches, but same will be updated today after you have been given those questions as homework. But let us come back to the discussion. So, the first question that we have is we have to obtain via department 2 for few assignments. So, which table should we update for Mira for a student? Where is the department ID for the student present? Which table? Student's table. Absolutely correct. So, if you go, have a look at the student's table, you can see the department present. But I have the department ID present here. What do I need? Department. Department, because the department is given to us. Right? How are you going to change or do this? There are multiple ways to write this way. What are the multiple ways to write this query? Let us have a look at all of that one by one. The first way to write this query is you go do select star from the department and you see what is the department ID for computer science. It is one. Then what you do is you go to the student table, you do update, students set department ID equal to 1. Oh, extremely sorry. See, this is what happens when you are in a rush. What happened here? What happened here? 5th day, I did update today, set the department ID equal to 1. What is the consequence of this? The consequence of this is absolutely correct. What happened? This happened. Right? So, please make sure to tone update like this is what you were having at discussion all in the next session as well. Now, what I will have to do is I will have to 1 by 1 manually. But, abeekily I will just let this be like that. I will not put any changes here. What I am going to do is I let us say now will update Mirage department ID to 2 and see if I have written the correct update query or not. So, update, students set to 2. What? Department ID equal to 2, where student name is equal to Mira. And one row has been changed. Let us see whether the correct row has been changed or not. The department ID for Mira has been updated to 2 correctly. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you presenting the session yes or no? Yes. But, I do not write to query for one operation. We need to make out a way to be able to write one single query for operation. So, what I need here is I need to be able to bring the department ID together, student and the department name table together. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session yes or no? Yes. What am I going to do here? Let me show that with the help of my laptop screen. Cool. So, what I have here is I have the student table. Okay. In which I have many things but I have this student name and I have the department ID. Then I have the department table in which I have the department ID and the department name. Now, we have computer science here and a department ID one here. What I want to do is I want to update Mira's department to, but Mira's department to computer science. What am I going to do? Can I say that the first thing that I need to do is I need to be able to join this can everybody give me a yes if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes. Now, if I join then without the conversation can I see what is happening in the part of the product will happen? Everybody is talking about the data to be in the next call. Which means this row name is Mira and whatever the department ID is is going to be mapped with every single entry here can everybody give me a yes if this makes sense to all of you? Yes or no? Yes. If I don't put a condition on the join, but do I want Mira to be mapped with every single condition? No. What do I want? I want Mira to be mapped to the row where the department name is computer science. So, how am I going to be able to achieve that? Let's see. Again, everyone the query that we are going to write now is how we are never going to be writing an update. Update students. S. Okay. Join the department's D on. Now, I don't want to join the tables on the basis of the primary and for entry of the tables and that is what we will never be doing. Whenever we are taking a join or whenever we are writing a join query, we will make sure to write the join query only and only for relationships. Only and only when two tables are related. This is a type of query that will work, but it should never write a query like this. Update departments D on D dot department name is equal to computer science. Now, what this will do is this will join all those two things with computer science department. Right. Now, what I need to do is I will set S dot department ID is equal to D dot department ID where student name is equal to Mira. Sorry. Everybody, first of all, the thumbs up if you are able to understand the query that I am trying to execute here thumbs down if there's no clarity on what we're doing here. Please feel free to give me a thumbs down if you're not able to understand this query. Let me explain again. What we're doing here is when I perform a join without any filtering condition, can I say a Cartesian product is created? Does that first of all make sense to everybody present in the session? Vivek, Shreya, everybody else is this clear? Yes. Now, what happens when a Cartesian product is created? Mira will be linked with every single entry in the department stable. Everybody, a thumbs up if this is also clear to all of you. Yes. Now, generally, what is the condition on the basis of which I filter the relevant join rows? The condition is student or department ID is equal to department or department ID. But do I want that right now? Is that the kind of join that I want to perform? Do I want to map Mira with the original department that Mira has? No, right? I want to map Mira with computer science department. Can everybody give me a yes or this makes sense to all of you? Yes. So, the filtering condition that I have put is on D.R. department name equal to computer science. So, from the cross join, from the Cartesian product, it will only give me those entries where the department name is computer science. So, right now let's say the department ID for student stable is 2. This is the mapping that I am going to get. Now, what I am doing is I am updating student table. department ID equal to department table. Department ID. In the department table, I have the department ID for computer science, which is 1. In the student table, I have the department ID for the current department. I am updating student or department ID to department or department ID where the student name is Mira. So, only for Mira, I am updating the department ID to the department ID of computer science and let's see. For Mira as well, the department has been updated to a 1. Everybody, if I can come up with the space that is to all of you present in the session, yes or no? Yes. But again, this is not a very easy level field computing. What is the correct way to execute a query like this? Let's have a look at that first. So, I am going to change the department ID of Mira again to 2. And now, this is what is the clear and the correct query. Update students set department ID equal to. Now, I want to set the department ID to this department ID of computer science equal to department students. Do I know the department idea of computer science for the department table without looking at the department table? No. So, what I am going to do is, I am going to run a nested select query to do that. Select department ID from. Select department ID from. Departments where. Department name is equal to computer science. So, now, what will happen is that the department ID in the students, even we will get updated to the department ID that I am fetching from the department table. This is called as nested queries. We have not covered this yet. We will cover this in the next session. Does that first of all make sense to all of you query within a query? And for which student do I want to update this where? Student name is equal to. Mira. And everyone, let's see. The department ID for Mira has again been updated to a one. All the 100 people in the session are come to the date with the student ID all of you from the document does not make sense to anybody present in this session. Don't worry, it's very good to be learning in the next session. This question was just to create the curiosity for the next session. Now, in this particular question, we were required to write a nested query because the detail that we wanted was presented another table, we had to select another table. But in the second question, where I want to update Rav's payment status to pay, which table am I going to be updating in this case? Which table contains the payments data? Payments table. Very good. Now, in the payments table, I want to update the payments status for Rav. Do I have Rav Rav student name present in the payment table? Yes or no? No. How will I get the student named in the payment table by joining it with the student's table? Why do I get this idea? Because I can see that student ID is a foreign key reference to the student's table. So, I can join this table to the student's table and I can get the student name and create a filter on the basis of the student name. So, let's write that query as well. So, I want to update payments set, payment status is equal to paid or extremely sorry. Update payments P, join students as on P dot student ID is equal to S dot student ID, set payment status is equal to paid. Again, because payment status is not an ambiguous attribute, you can just use payment status. But as a safe practice, always use the table name set P dot payment status is equal to paid where S dot student name is equal to Rahul. Here again, everyone zero rows were affected because here. Here if you see for the student Rahul, the payment status is already paid. Let me change it to pending and see if I get the correct result or not. Now, you can see one row has been updated and now we can see that for Rahul, the payment status has been updated to pending. So, our query was absolutely correct. Everybody comes up with the solution to the question number two is also crystal clear to all of you presenting the session. Thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody. Yes, question number three is to increase the age of all the students from the nearby one. So, first to fall, what I am going to do is I am going to see where the students and their cities are present, where are the students and the cities present in the students table. So, what I am going to do is I am going to first have a look at the age of all the students from Delhi. Select student name age city from students, right. I can also filter Delhi where city equal to Delhi. So, these are the three students whose city is equal to Delhi. Age is 20, 20, 20, 25. I am going to update their age and increase the age by one. Update students said age, I am going to use the arithmetic function here age equal to age plus one, where city is equal to Delhi. How many rows have been affected? Three rows have been affected. Let us see 24, 25, 26. Everybody a thumbs up if the question number three is also crystal clear to all of the present in the session. Very good. Question number four, display the student name and department name for all the students who have a department aside. Now, in which table the student name is present? Student name. In which table the department name is present? Student name is present. Now, in the query it is given to you that you have to fetch the detail of all the students for which a department has been aside. So, first of all what I am going to do is I am going to change the department of a couple of students to null. So, here now if you see for Mira and for Arjun the department ID is null, which means in whatever query that I run, Mira and Arjun should not be present. Now, what I want to do is because I primarily want the details from the student's table, I am going to perform the join of the department's table on the student's table. Can anyone tell me which type of line am I going to be performing? Am I going to perform an inner join, left join the right join which one? No. If I perform a left join what I am going to get is I am going to get all the students. The table on the left you will be get all the entries for that. Do I need all the entries for the students? No. I need those entries for the students where the department identity is actually matched the department ID present in the department's table and department ID in the department's table cannot be a null because it is a primary key of the department's table. So, which join am I going to be using let me ask all of you again? Innerrguh. Right join will give you all the departments even if no student is assigned to that department. Make sense? I need where there is an exact match select student name s dot student name d dot department name from students s join departments d on s dot department ID equal to d dot department ID and what you get is you get a list of all the students in the department for today for the department has been assigned apologies for this. Super super just give me one second everyone let me correct the database itself okay. Let me create the tables again very quickly because again for the future queries we might be using. Okay now let's go back to the next question question number four we have done five. We have to do this play the course name and instructor name for all the courses that have an instructor right. So, which table has course name present the courses table have a course name present instructor table have a instructor name present instructor ID is a foreign key in the course this table. I need to fetch the names of all the course instructors where course as instructor which join am I going to be using in this case everyone again inner join absolutely correct let me write the query for that select c dot course name i dot instructor name from courses c join instructor's i on c dot instructor ID is equal to i dot instructor ID and what I have is for all the courses I have the course name is instructor name present all the courses where the instructors are assigned if you want to have a look at the data for all the courses even that the courses where the instructors are not assigned what you're going to do is you're just going to change this to a left join and you can see that there are two courses which is structural engineering and engineering drawing for which no instructors are assigned. Everybody has a query is crystal clear to all of you present in the session comes down if this does not make sense to anybody yes because student table student ID is used for the foreign key in a lot of other tables right. So, I have run the I have said for the next two to 0 and then I have said I am not ready for the next table and then I have said I am not ready for the next table ideally the correct process for that is for the moment you check you select the foreign key checks you make them 0 then you go to the student table you drop the student table then you insert everything or create the table again insert everything and then turn the foreign key checks back on. Now question number 6 display the student name course name and grade for all enrolled students which is going to be my primary table to select and view the data end-rollments why because I want the data for all end-rollments now for all enrollments if I want the data student name and which join am I going to be using left join absolutely correct. So, let me check the enrollment table once in the enrollment table I have the enrollment student ID course and grade status. I want the student name course name and grade student name I am going to get from the student table by joining the student table with student ID and course name I am going to get from the courses table by joining the courses table on the enrollment table using the course ID. So, let us write the query for that select what C sorry S dot student name C dot course name from sorry E dot grades or grade E dot grade from end-rollment I student on E dot student ID is equal to dot student ID which join am I going to be using here left join. Again this is not the only table that I am supposed to join I am supposed to join one more table left join courses C on C dot course ID is equal to S dot course ID. E dot student ID is equal to S dot student ID at line 1. Yes you have select S dot student name C dot course name E dot grades from enrollments E left join students S on E dot student under 4 id is equal to S dot student under 4 id. Here take your name here dot grade oh comma is missing sorry up here at a unknown column S dot course ID S dot student ID C dot course ID is equal to E dot course ID. And what we have here is we have a list of all the student name the course name and the grade that the students have received. Everybody a thumbs up if the query for the question number 6 is crystal here to all of you thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody yes. So that depends on the wording of the question okay I am not a business logic and I am just going by the wording but this is the wording I have all the letters in the code. Now if it is possible that there is a credit and load for the rest of the company I you have all the lines is expressing direct question number 5 computing and it can register and add lapse data So, we are going to get things out. In the interesting video, here because of this table, we do not have any other table. We do not know. We can be in a separate meeting where the table is going to be going on. That is why, for this table, all the enrollment data we use is like this. I believe that this table is going to be correct. The table is going to be correct. The table is going to be correct and speaks. This could have been for you to be able to. For all the previous students, the student ID is going to be in the school. The student must have the same license. But, again, the possibility of the students in the school is going to be in the number 4. The second case is going to be for the table. So, in that case, what is the expected? Yeah, student will be able to go to school or attend. Ideally, if this is both within, I just use Lebjet because, A will not attend. Now, question number 7. To display all the students with their department names, including students without a department. So, primarily, which table we have been asked to query? Students table. We have to display all the students with their department name, including students without department names. We have already written this query. This one. Oh, sorry. What we want is student and their department names. So, what are you going to do? Select s.studentname, d.departmentname from students s. Join. Departments d on s.department id is equal to d.department id. And I'm going to run this. Is this the correct query, everyone? Is this the correct query for the question number 7? Everybody, yes or no? Question number 7 says, display all the students with their department names, including students without a department. Are these all the students? How many students do I have? I have 15 students. How many have been displayed here? Only 13 have been displayed here. What is not correct in this query? Join. Which join are we going to using here? Left join. Absolutely correct. So, I'm going to run the list of all the students and their department, even for today's query department is not a sign. Right? Super. Moving on to the next question, question number 8, find the students who do not have any department. Which table will we need to query to check this? Do I need to join this with the department's table, this particular query? No. What will be the query that I'm going to write? I'm going to write select. Start from students where department ID is equal to null. Is this the correct query, everyone? No, this is not the correct query. Why? You already seen null we don't equate. For null we use is and is not. So, department ID is null. We have the students whose department ID is null. If you want those students, department is not null. Right? Great. Question number 9. Display all the courses with the instructors, including the courses without instructors. Can I say this is a query that we have already written, right? When I was explaining the query for the... So, this was the query where we wrote the course name and the instructor name only for the courses where the instructors are assigned. We use a normal join. If you use a left join, we're also going to get the courses where the instructors are not assigned. And that's what the question is. Everybody, a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes. Now, find the courses that do not have any instructor assigned. Again, very simple. Select course name from courses where instructor ID is null. And you will see the courses which do not have instructors assigned. Everybody, a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes. Now, let's try to solve the question number 11. The question number 11 says, this query is couldn't name, course name, instructor name, and grade for every end rule. Now, what are the tables that we are going to be needing for this query? Let's list down all the tables that we will need for this particular query. Student name, where is the student name? Student table. The first table that I will need is the student statement. Course name, where is the course name? Course. The next table I'm going to be needing is the courses table. March, where are the marks present? Sorry. Instructor name, where is the instructor name present? Instructor. Instructor's table, very good. And fourth is the end rule grade, where is the grade present? Endrollment's table. Now, out of these four tables, what will be the primary table that I will start my query from? End rule table. Because I need the data of all the end rules. Very, very good. So, I'm going to start my query from the enrollment table. Now, let's look at the enrollment table once. In the enrollment table, I have the grade which I directly need from here. I have the student ID and I have the code ID. So, from the enrollment table, all to the enrollment table, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to join my student's table using the student ID. And I'm going to be joining my courses table using your course ID. But how will you fetch the instructor now? Where is the instructor ID present in the courses table? So, now what I'm going to do is, I'm going to join the instructor's table here using the instructor's ID. Now, let's identify the type of join that I'm going to do. Because I want the data for every single enrollment, can I say I'm going to create left joints here? Can everybody give me a yes if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes or no? Yes. Which join am I going to be creating here? Will this be a left join, inner join, right join, everyone? Left join. Why a left join? Because for an enrollment, if a student has enrolled in the course, even though the course does not have an instructor, I need the data for that enrollment. Everybody, a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. So, all of the joins here are going to be left joints. Select s.studentname. c.coursename. i.instructorname. e.grad from enrollment's e. Left join students s on e.studentid is equal to s.studentid. Left join courses c on c.courseid is equal to e.courseid. Left join instructors on c.instructorid is equal to i.instructorid. s.st.r.c.r.o.r. c. s.st.r.c.r. s.st.r.c.r.o.r. s.st.r.c.r.o.r. s.st.r.c.r. s.st.r.c.r. s.st.r.c.r. s.st.r. s.st.r.