you youdingORDIB sleeping like a bag everybody lets settle down It's almost time in fact it govern for over time Then where are the rest of the people? I see this through empty. Would anyone like to volunteer and move here? Anyone? Sorry? As I have exams? Okay. As a question. So, since it is your exams, we will try to keep it light. What else objects do you have by the way? Just two subjects. Third is data and index. OS and DBMS. Okay. Cool. Should we do that tough to be honest? Cool. Let's get started with what we have planned for today. So, today everybody remembers last time we covered entertainment data set, like the movies data set and tried to answer some business questions using pandas. Everybody remembers that. And I gave you folks homework as well. I hope you tried out those questions as well because those were important for learning pandas. So, today we will continue going in depth of pandas but looking into some more important functions that you can use to answer more deep business questions and do much deeper data analytics with the data that you have been given. First, so basically the functions that we are going to look at today are first of all the concept of multi indexing. So, we will learn about multi indexing. Then we will look into some of the important functions like melting using pd.meld. Meld is a function. Then pivoting how you can pivot various tables. So, the functions are pd.pivot slash pd.pivot table. We will look into both of them. What else? We have and binning. Binning is very important concept which is very helpful in machine learning and data analytics as well. So, binning using the function pd.cat. So, that's the agenda for today. Without wasting much time, let's start with the first topic. Multinexing. Let me ask you a question folks. You tell me let's say you are working with a very large retail chain. What's a retail chain like Walmart? Everybody knows what Walmart does? Everybody knows what Walmart does? What does Walmart do? Everybody says products. Like general, yeah, grocery items. Anything general for general purpose, Walmart says that. Similarly in India, we have Dmart. Then reliance geostores. Everybody would be aware of geofresh or whatever they call it. Things like that. So, let's say you're working with companies like these which are large retail chains. So, they would be having multiple stores. Multiple stores in multiple states. Multiple cities. So, let's say now you want to answer, yeah answer question or answer certain business related problems at a city level. Let's say you're working for Zomato, right? Zomato or any of the food aggregators, right? Now the CEO of Zomato comes and asks you tell me a city level, city level profit for this month, right? So, how will you do this? How will you provide them a city level profit? How will you provide them a city level profit? Any thoughts? Anyone? Yeah? Group by city, okay. Group by city and then what? Find the? All you can say simply some of the profit, right? But do you see a problem with this? Do you see any problem with this approach? Do you see a problem with this approach? No problems? H.I. Which we live in India, right? Now within India, there are multiple states, right? And city would come under states. Now if you have ever noticed, at least I have multiple states, state one, state two, can have cities with the same name. Has anybody noticed this? So city name is something that is that might not be unique in case of a country like India, which has so many cities, so many states, so many types of people. So this is very common problem that within the multiple states, there are cities that have very same name or similar names, for example, in Bangalore, we have K.R. Kuram, right? Has anybody heard of this place? K.R. Kuram, right? In Delhi, we have a very similar place called R.K. Puram, like it's just this system of this, right? Of course, the full form would be different, but you see the problem, right? Now they're still there different, but very close. Now there would definitely be cases where the city names are exactly the same. Now when you group by the city and take the sum of the profit, there are chances that you are going to add the profit of two different cities and displayed as one. Is this clear to everyone? Is the problem clear to everyone? So what should be the solution? What should be the solution? Yes, so you do aggregation not at a single variable, but at a multi variable. So you have a column called state and then you have a column called city, so for state 1, city 1, state 2 and city 1 if they have the same name. So better approach would be to aggregate or group by at multiple columns. Now this results, let's say you have profit, right? Profit 1, profit 2. Now this results in something that is known as multi indexed. Now here both of them are the indexes. Both these columns are indexes and this is the column. So this is the concept behind multi indexing. Is this clear to everyone? Instead of one index, you have multiple indexes. So yeah, let me share this notebook with you as well. Let me so this notebook is detailed. It shares the basically it explains the intuition behind why do we need multi indexing? What problem does it solve? Things like that. Anybody has any questions? Anybody has any questions? Any questions still now? Cool. So yeah, as you can see in your screen, it's a brief description of the intuition behind multi indexing. So imagine a massive digital file cabinet for a global retail chain. If you organize files just by city, you'll have a hard time if multiple countries have a city name Springfield. So for example, there can be this problem can come at a country level also, right? There can be separate countries but might share the same name. If you organize solely by here, similarly for here as well, right? Here is a common column and if you have multiple countries and if you aggregate, you'll not get just by your level for a particular country, you'll get for all countries, right? So a multi index is like a multi level filing system. So you first look at the country, then you look at the city and then maybe even further, if you want to look at store IDs or even further down the line. Right now, we just saw two level indexing. You can do a three level four level or even five level multi indexing as well. So what does it do? It allows you to store and work with higher dimensional data 3D 40 as we saw here within a standard 2D spreadsheet or a data frame like structure without flattening or repeating the values. So one solution that it could have been that we instead of group buying multiple things like instead of group buying state and city, I could have created a new column called state underscore city. Yes or no? State one city one, state two city two, state three city three, so on so forth. So I could have used the state and the city columns, state and the city columns and just combine them into one. How would I have done that? Can anybody think of it? Does anybody know how can I combine two columns? Let's say if I have a data frame, which is column called state and it has a column called city. I want to create a new column called state underscore city. State one city one, state two city one, state three city two, so on so forth. And the final output that I want is state one underscore city one, state two underscore city one, state three underscore city two. How would you do this if you want to achieve something like this? Anybody has any thoughts? Any thoughts anyone? Aacha, you have two strings, string one, string two. How will you combine them? Sorry? Okay, but I'm simply asking at a string level, you have two strings, S1, S2. How will you join these two strings? S1 plus S2 will that add the underscore? Yes, you can do something like this, S1 plus underscore plus S2. So that is also possible. Similarly, you can do the same operation at a data frame level as well. Alternatively, you could have done this, right? Do you know this function called .Join? Do you know this function .Join? Everybody is aware of this function called .Join? So if you are aware, can you write a code? Let's quickly take a look. So how will you write a code that combines the region and city with an underscore using .Join function? Can anybody think? I give you a hint, we studied last week about a function called .Lirt Apply. Can you use that here? Somehow, anybody? These questions are going to come into your quiz, right? I hope you are aware. It will not be straightforward. You will require some application. How will you write a .Join function to join these two strings? Region and city. Anybody has any thoughts? So I can do something like this, m.apply, lambda, x and then use the .Join function. x of region and x of city axis equal to 1. Where did we go around? StiRT takes exactly one argument to given. It does that. It is splitting the north. Let's say simply do a x of region plus underscore plus x of city. Let me combine this into one. You see north underscore Chicago, north underscore Detroit, south underscore Houston, south underscore Miami. That's how you can use .Join or even simple addition, string addition to does to do this type of operation. But the problem with this is this is very anti-D. This is not a very neat looking output. So that's why we kind of prefer a multi-index array or simply doing a multiple group by. So here we have a basically data site about regions and cities and we have created a multi-index data frame and simply we are printing it. Any questions in this? Any questions in this? You see the difference here? Now instead of one single index, I have two indexes here. If I copy it here, we have two values at the index position. How do I know there are two values? This reflects that, right? So for north I have two values Chicago and Detroit. For south I have two values Houston and Miami and then I have 24 sales at 2025 sales. Any questions in this? Any questions? Anyone? Any doubts? Anybody? Cool. So that was the concept around multi-indexing. Yes. So how do I access these indexes? Now there can be two parts. You look at the data frame, right? It has two indexes, one that signifies region and the other that signifies city. So if I just want to access the north region rows that is only this part. If I want to access only these two rows that correspond to north, I can simply say sales.loc. And you will see that I get the data for Chicago and Detroit, right? Only these two cities. Chicago and Detroit correspond to north and I see the output for only these two. In the second I am printing dot-lock north and Chicago. What will happen in this case? If I do DF dot-lock north and Chicago, like north, comma, Chicago, which row will I see? Only the first one. Why? Because now I am indexing both the indexes region as well as the city. That's why I will see only the first index and not the entire part. Is that clear to everyone? Any questions, any doubts? Cool. And here we see that output, the second part basically. Let me clearly print this separately. So here it was just Chicago and Detroit. Here you see the sales for these two. 15, one lakh, 50,000 and one lakh, 65,000. So one lakh, 50,000 and one lakh, 65,000. And you see here, it specifically says north and Chicago. Is this clear? Any questions, anyone? Any doubts, anybody? On the right? Cool. So there's a task for you. You can take a look at home. It's a homework question. I've given a hint as well. So you can take a look at that. Cool. Now coming to another important function called melt. Let me quickly pick up a data frame from here. So we see a data frame here that shows student information, like student level information, and the scores that they have got in math, physics and chemistry. So this type of data frame is known as a wide format. Why is it called wide format? Because you see each column, like each column represents kind of a unique value. So this represents the score for maths. This represents the score for physics. This represents the score for chemistry. Now let's say I have to add 10 more subjects. What will happen? Let's see, there are 10 more subjects. I want to add for OS, DBMs, data analytics and so on and so forth. So what do I need to do? I would need to add more columns. Yes or no? You will get scores for whatever score you get for these subjects. But do you see the problem with this? What's the problem with this, folks? Do you see any problem with this? Let's say I have to add 10 more subjects. What would happen? I would have to add 10 more columns. So let's say these subjects keep on increasing. I would have to keep on adding the columns. Wouldn't that be too wide of a data frame? Like I'll have to scroll all the way to the right to look at the values. So one way to kind of solve that problem is convert this wide format into long format. Does anybody know what long format means? Anybody has any idea what long format means? So basically I will try to create a new column. Let's say student is here, student says as is, right? Alice and Bob. Now I'll create two new columns that would represent these quantities. What should be the first column that I should create to represent the first quantity subjects? Any thoughts? What should be the first column that I should create? Any thoughts? I want to represent the subjects, math, physics, chemistry, whatever. Kind of simply create a column called subject. Here, when I do that, what will happen? So Alice has how many rows for each subject? Three. So for each subject Alice would get one row. First subject is math. Second subject is physics. Third subject is chemistry. And whatever subjects you have, I can create a corresponding score column for that. What values is Alice? 9, 5, 8, 9, 9, 9, 2. Similarly, I will have three rows for Bob as well. Yes or no? So this is known as a long format. Now you see how many, whatever number of subjects I want to add, instead of increasing the number of columns, I can increase the number of rows and create a more refined structure like this. Is this clear? Any questions anyone? So see, what we are doing here? We have a white format data frame that we created originally. So for that, I have used this in text period or data frame. And for each column, I am using a dictionary to pass the column and the values. For student, we have to values Alice and Bob for math corresponding to values, physics to values, chemistry to values. And when you print this, you get this white format data frame. Now I am kind of, I want to convert it into a long format data frame. How am I doing that? I am using a function called pd.melt. So it melts. In a way, it is melting your data frame, melting your wide format data frame into this long format. So I use a function called pd.melt. I pass my white format data frame, wide format data frame, which is wide and this code DF. Now it is expecting a few variables, right? It is expecting a few parameters from them. What should be the identifier column here? If you look at the wide frame, what value represents an ID? Sorry. The name of the student. So I can simply pass the ID as student. Similarly, it is expecting the values. So what are the values that we have? The values we have, what are the values that we have? We have the subject, which is math, physics and chemistry. So the values that we pass are math, physics and chemistry. We are giving it a variable name. And what are the values that I am interested in? I am interested in their scores. So I will create a score column. So you see finally, I have converted into wide frame into a long format. It says that it is repeating Alice Bob, Alice Bob, Alice Bob instead of Alice Alice Alice Bob Bob Bob. It is taking two at a time. Is this clear? Anybody has any questions? Yeah. So it depends on case to case. In a case where let us say you want the output in this wide format, I will show you where this will be a problem. So basically when we will kind of start looking into a case study, let me show you. So let's, there is a case, we will come to this, but let me show you an example. So this is a dataset that tells you about temperature and pressure of drugs, like medicines at various points in time. So you see it is comparing at every point in every one hour, 10, 30, 11, 30, till the end of the day. Similarly assume there is a case where you are noting a data at minute level. So if you have a data for 24 hours, how many minutes do you have in a day? You can calculate right? An hour has 60 minutes and you have 24 hours, you can multiply that. So that many columns you will have. So we get expanded to that much length. So in that scenario, having a long format is better, but in some scenarios I can agree with you that where we have only limited values, then long format also works fine. And generally when you look at machine learning use cases, if you have categorical columns, let's say something like this math, physics and chemistry, now ML or machine learning model cannot understand text. So you will have to encode that. So generally in that you use a wide format. So in that scenario is wide format works. So it depends on case to case. Is that clear? Anybody else has any question? Anybody else has any question? Cool. If no question, we can move ahead to the next topic, which is pivot and pivot table. So pivot is technically exactly the reverse of what Melch does. What does Mel do? Melch converts this wide format into long format. Now I'm saying that it's a reverse of it. So that means pivot would pivot would convert, pivot would convert long form to wide form. As I mentioned, it depends on case to case where long form data is more desirable. There could be cases where wide format could be more desirable. So that's the difference between the two, meld converts wide to long and pivot converts long to wide. That's the difference between the two. Basically they're opposite of each other. Yeah. So let's look at an example. Here you look at it. You have a long form data where you're kind of noticing the number of clicks. Here you are kind of noticing the number of clicks on a map like desktop version or the mobile version. Do you have a scalar app by the way? Do you have any app for scalar or just the web portal? Web portal. Okay, but let's take an example of make my trip. Make my trip has both website as well as an app. So make my trip has both desktop as well as mobile. Now something the analytics teams are generally interested in measuring is the click through rate or the number of clicks you made. They're interested in knowing the clicks you made to a certain banner. Let's open, let's open, let's say a website. Let's try to open, make my trip. Okay, so I'm opening a make my trip. Cool. So now they have all these offers listed on. They have all these offers listed on. Now how do I get to know? How do I get to know that whether displaying this offer was a good decision by my marketing team? How do I get to know? Any idea? How do I get to know whether this displaying the, let's say this live now, great connections fast by Indigo. This was a good decision. I'm not sure. I'm happy with that. I'm already. Clicks or use as well. So use is a much better metric, but keep things simple. Clicks can also be a metric. Like how many people actually click on this? So more number of clicks could give us a signal that people are showing more interest. Definitely the at the end of the day conversion or people using this promo code or this discount will be the actual metric that they will be looking at. So this is a funnel of funnale of things. How does that thing, how does things happen? First thing, let's say you did display the promo. First thing that would happen would be an impression. That means the user has looked at the banner. Second tells you click. That's the next funnel. From the impression that impression derived a click. That the graphic was so or the content was so good that somebody at least clicked at it. Third would be the usage, which will be the, I think, the downstream or the most required thing that they would be interested in, but they look at all three, because that gives you an indication how good a campaign is or how good promo is. So clicks, we can look at. Right. Now this clicks could be, now if you open the MMT app, there might be a case, you will see the same promo, but in a different format. Right now it's in a buy-in browser, maybe in a app format, it would be in a vertical format. So they would be interested in knowing how much clicks did they get in the desktop version and how many clicks did they got in mobile version. Right now you have, and this is for a daily level data, every day how many clicks they're getting. So right now they have kind of two columns. So one another way to visualize this could be converted into a wide format. Right. You convert it into a, or let's say originally you had, originally you had a wide format, but you want to convert it long. So you can use pivot for that, right. You can use a pivot function so that you get, let's say for desktop and for mobile, right. Clicks, number of clicks, number of impressions, or number of conversions, things like that. So you convert basically a long format table, which was earlier long format into a wide format aggregated table. Right. So this will give you the total number of clicks, total clicks, desktop, total clicks, mobile, total impressions, desktop, total impressions, mobile, so on and so forth. So I've kind of created a summary or a pivot table summary from a long format data. Is this clear? Any questions in this anyone? Any doubts? Any doubts, anyone, folks? So here you see originally my long data frame was something like this. This was my long data frame. Let me run this. So this shows that on first of May 2026 mobile got 120 clicks. First of May 2026 desktop got 240 clicks. Now if I want to have the total how many clicks that each of them got for the two days first and second, I can simply use a pivot function, what pivot on the index I'm using date. So on this date what how many clicks did I get? Columns which device device got which one and what are the values that I'm looking in clicks. So that can also be one way to looking at it. Is this clear? Any doubts, any confusion, anyone? Let me look at the chat as well. Anybody has any questions if they're posted on chat, no one. Cool. So that's the application of melt and pivot. If you want to convert wide to long and long to wide, you can use these type of functions and do extract various insights. I hope this make my trip example was clear to everyone, right? Any questions in that? Cool. Now, so right now we saw that there's a function that we use a function called dot pivot, right? Now there's an alternative function called dot pivot underscore table. See what happens? So what is the difference between the two? Yeah. So let me tell you what is the difference between the two? Pivot versus pivot table. So in both the functions, you see we are using a column called index, right? Index. Or let's say, here also we have something known as index. Now what the problem with pivot is, if there are duplicate values, like there are more than one values in the index column, let's say, you have more than one date column, right? More than one date column, the pivot will give you an error. So it cannot handle duplicates. Cannot handle duplicate values. While pivot table can handle duplicate values. So that's the difference. So in case you are seeing some duplicate values which are needed, pivot table is a function that you should go ahead with. Is that clear? We will see an application of it, we will see an application of it as well. So here it is. If a log file has multiple entries for mobile on the same exact day, that means let's say for the same day for same date 2026, 05, 01, mobile, 2026, 05, 01. So for the same date, let's say you have 21, 22. So for the same date somehow, you have two values. It could be a case that now you are looking at two promos. Instead of one, you are looking at the two promos. So how many clicks you got for the first, how many clicks you got for the second or even more? How many clicks you got for the third for a given date? So if you have more than one values, pivot table will throw an error. Sorry, pivot will throw an error, while pivot table can handle this. So in case you have duplicate values, you should go ahead with pivot table, the pivot table function. Let's look at the use case also. So here you see for the same date, first of may, first of may I have same device mobile and multiple values for it. Now if you use a pivot function, the dot pivot, it will throw an error, but to handle that, you can use a pivot table. So what is the difference? Like what difference do you see folks? If you look at let me do a side-by-side comparison, let me paste this here. So this is one syntax and this is one syntax. So can you see a difference between the two? Can you see a difference, what a difference between these two functions? I can see one additional column. Sorry, but a additional parameter. I think you tell me. Now I have two values, like two different values for the same date. If I want to have total number of clicks for the first date, what should I do? If I want to have the total number of clicks, what should I do? Add it, right? If I want to do an average of the two, I can do a mean, right? So that is what pivot table provides. Private table provides a parameter called aggregate function or AGG function. So this tells the user that if there are multiple roles, you should aggregate them and what aggregate values you want. So here we have some. So it would have simply added the two. So basically for the first of May, for mobile, I will have 100 plus 150, that is 250. You see the value is 250 here. Is this clear to everyone? So with the pivot table, I can do aggregation, while this is not possible with pivot. If you do that, it will start throwing an error. If you have multiple values, you can try and pass this exact data instead of pivot table, use a pivot function and you will see an error. Is this clear? Any questions, anyone? Let me know if in case there are questions, because next when we move to a case study, then we will be using these functions. We will no question on the chat as well. So again, coding challenge for you at home. So please do look at it. Please do try to solve it on your own. You will expect these type of questions in your quiz and examily. So please do try them. Next is the concept of binning. So binning is helpful in kind of grouping populations. Let us say I have an age column. We have ages like 19, 20, 18, 26, 25, 37, 38, 60, 70. Now if you look at these ages, can you group them? Like what kind of groups do you think of? What kind of groups are you able to think of? I hope all the dates are visible. Let me zoom out. What type of groups do you see just from looking at these age numbers, raw values? Any thoughts? Okay. Young adults. Only young adults. Or you can say middle aged and then the old people. Right? For the elder generation. So from just by looking at these numbers, we can figure out that we can see three groups. So or we can say there are three bins that I can create. Let us say this group. 19, 20, 18, 26, 25. These can be clubbed into let us say Gen Z. All these 37, 38. These can be called millennials. And whatever the remaining are, maybe you can call them others or elder population. So I can see just by looking at the age distribution that these can be binned or clubbed into smaller buckets or smaller bins. That's the whole concept of bins. So you try to let us say you are selling a product. Right? You are selling a product. Let us say you are selling what do you call diet coke. Right? Diet coke is entrenched. Right? Now if I want to analyze to which and I have just this age values. I want to analyze like I'm working for coke and I want to figure out which group or which age people are you know ordering diet coke more. And if I have just age, it would be more convenient that it would be more insightful for me to make them into groups like these and then to the analysis. Like for example, among the Gen Z population, usually it could be a case that the diet coke sales would be higher. Then it would be relatively lower in case of millennials and elders might not be drinking at all. So you see the point. Instead of having raw, continuous values, I can create bins or buckets out of these raw values and then do my analytics to figure out certain insights. So the insight here could be that the sale for diet coke is very high in Gen Z. So maybe my marketing team could design campaigns that are more you know that upsell or that further increase the sales among Gen Z. Alternatively, they could start creating something for millennials. Right? That would increase the sales for these groups. Maybe elders are not going to buy anyway so you can ignore them. So for millennials who design a different product or design a different marketing campaign that could increase the sales among this group. Does that make sense to everyone? Like does you see do you see the point of winning or bucketing into various groups? Anybody has any questions? Any doubts? Any questions? So how do you you know how do you create these bins using pandas? So this is a function called pd.cut. So yeah this first tells you what is the intuition and analogy. So let's say you are sorting apples by the size right small, medium, large, like if you want to put them in boxes. Similarly age groups or income groups. You can convert continuous brackets into bins. And why do you need it? So for business intelligence use cases and machine learning you can read about that. So we'll look at a coding example. So I have credit scores. Are you folks familiar with the terms for what does credit score mean? Does anybody has any idea what does credit score mean? Where is it helpful? Anybody it knows? Yes. So credit scores are basically it's a score that tells banks and other financial institutions about their financial aid. If you have a very low credit score, if you have low credit score, if there's a bank range, right there ranges of low gold, poor, he's kind of a credit score. If you fall in poor or let's say fair credit score brackets, bank might not give you loans. If you have poor financial aid or if you have a poor credit score, banks might not give you loans. So as a bank it's very important to bin certain credit scores, like certain values credit scores into buckets so that it's easier for them to analyze or easier for them to handle whom to give loans, whom not to give loans, right. So basically these are the bins. So that means what does this mean? Any value starting from 500 till 600 will come under work, then 600 to 700 will become fair, 700 to 800 will become good, 800 to 250 would become excellent. Is that clear? How does pair or how does this binning work? So we're using the function called pd.cut and then I'm passing the first the credit scores, the bins, I'm expecting these bins and then the labels for these bins. So now if you look at it, credit score 520 that comes under poor, why? Because the first bin was 500 to 600, right? So that comes under poor. Then 790, 790 is good because 790 corresponds to 700 to 800, so that is the third value which is good. Similarly fair, 640 that means 600 to 700 that's fair, so that's why you're seeing fair, so and so forth. So that's how you can create continuous columns into buckets and now banks could, banks index could use this clear column to figure out who to give loans and who not for you. So is the syntax here to have given any question in the syntax? Any question in the code or the syntax part? So you see 500 to 600, this this way, this bin 500 to 600, 600 is exclusive, this corresponds to poor, 6 to 700 fair, 7 to 8 good, 800 to 800 to 800, so and you will that if we do not cut, you pass the credit scores, that is your actual value, your actual customer data, your bins that you have created and the labels for that, these are the labels for the bins and then you simply, yeah, you can create a data frame out of it. Is this clear? Any questions, anyone? Any questions, any doubts? No questions? Cool, so that's the concept part. Now we will look at how will we use to actually solve the business cases? So let's take, let's take a 322, let's take a 5 minute break and let's come back by 327 and then we will start looking at the business case. Let me share this in the chat in the meantime, those who want to use the restroom or go for water, you can do so, we will start at 327, so this is the case study. In case anybody has questions, please feel free to ask. So this is what we will look into next. Hello, let's start. So everybody can open the notebook that I shared, if you want to work along, you can create a copy out of it. So yeah, we will be discussing multi indexing, multi-melting, pivoting and bidding with respect to a case study. So first thing first, I hope everybody is aware of by now what does GDOWN does, so we're downloading the files from Google Drive and it will be visible here once downloaded. So for, we will be using two datasets. For some of the concepts, we will be continuing with what we had from the previous class, that is the movies and the directors, dataset related to IMDB. So I'm loading the files, I'm doing a join operation, a left join, on the director ID, which we did the last time as well, and creating a final dataset. I hope there are no questions in this part, right? We did this in the previous class as well. We load the file and we do a left join using the merge function. So this is how the final dataset looks. Now we have the director name and the director gender as well. Yeah, so we try to answer the question which director according to you should be considered as the most productive. So tell me folks, should it be based on the number of movies, on the quality of the movies, or the amount of the business the movies is doing? Who, which director is the most productive? So they can be multi-pilements, right? Who is producing the most number of movies? Can the single productivity? Who is directing the highest quality? That will also be a single productivity. And similarly, how much money each movie is making that can be a signal of productivity. So to simplify things, we'll start with the count or the number of movies each of them have produced. So what is the first thing that I'm doing? I'm grouping by the director name and then I'm finding the title count, right? Count, this will give me how many movies each director has produced and finally sorting in descending order using the function called sort value. So sort value is the sorting, ascending equal to source means that sort of descending order are high to look. So now you see the name of the director and the count of the movies that they have directed, right? So it looks like Steven Spielberg has directed the most number of movies. Yes, but does it make Steven the most productive director, right? Chances are that he might be active for more years than the other director, right? It's simply because he has been directing movies for so long, he is a business for so long, that's why he's seeing the most number of movies. So what's the solution for this? How to take into account the time? How to take into account time? Yes, something similar to that. We can do a group by a director level and do a multi-level aggregation. I think we saw that in the previous class as well. Now that I can find the minimum and the maximum value and then simply the count of it. So this will tell me and then as you suggested, we can do a difference between the two as well. So if you look at this, this gives me when this started, like which was the first movie that I directed and which was the last movie that they had directed and then the count this will give me a fair share of idea just by looking at it if somebody has been in the business for long to get more concrete, I can do a subtraction or difference between the two to get the number of years in spell. So what am I doing? I'm simply grouping by the director name. There are two columns here and title here and title. So there are more than one column and then I'm aggregating. How I'm aggregating? I'm passing a dictionary. So how do I want to aggregate here? So for here, I want the minimum and maximum value, but for title, I just want the count. So you see I can do a multiple level of aggregation, like a multiple column with each column having separate matrix. Here I have both minute matrix, while title is as count. Here I have both minute max, the first year and the most age to the most class gap and then I have directed. And the count as it. So I can do multi-level aggregation like this. Is there any question? Any question? Any doubts in the syntax or the output? Any questions? Anyone? Any doubts? Cool. If there are no doubts, we can go ahead. Yeah. One thing you can notice is that now the director name has become index. So one thing we saw around multi-indexes that we were having multiple indexes. Similarly, we can have multiple level of column names. Here we have multiple columns. So if I look, if I just copy this, how many columns you see in this output, how many columns you see actually? No, there are actually two columns only. But within the two columns, they are split into two columns each. Like the columns are broadly two only. So here is one column and the title is another column. It's just that the same column is split into multiple values. So or you can just sub-column. So here has two values, two sub-column min and max. Title as one sub-column called count. If you look at it, if you do data.coilums, there are the data-framinium.coilums, you see year min, year max, title count. So basically it shows you that the first one is the year min and the second one is the year max and for the third which is title count. Is this clear? The point is multiple indexes are not only limited to just indexes. It could have multiple columns as well. Like multi-level indexing means can be at column as well. In the previous example, we saw state and city as indexes. Here we are seeing year min and max as columns. So multi-level can be at both columns as well as index level. Any questions in this? Any doubts? Any doubts? Anyone? Cool. Yeah. So here if we just print the column here, as I mentioned, if you just select year, it will show you both the min as well as the max values. Why? Because these two are sub-columns under the year column. So when you just pick year, it will show you both min as well as max. So this tells you what is the first year image-adirector directed the movie and which was the last year image-adirector directed the movie. Any doubts? Any questions? Any questions? Anyone? Cool. Now the question is how can we convert multi-level back to only one level? Like if I want to again create it into single level, how can we do that? I can simply say underscore.join-call for call in data aggregate.com. So let's see what happens. Let's do a step by step. So let me just print call. Let me run this. You see now when I do this, it's a tuple, right? A tuple of year min, year max and title count. Now what are we doing next? We're kind of doing a dot underscore join. So that means what will happen? This year and min will get joined with each other with an underscore. So you can say when you do this, year underscore min, year underscore max and title count. And if you set this as data dot columns, if I so right now data dot aggregate columns was this. Now if I equate it with this new value, if I replace or assign this new value as the columns, now you see the column has become again single indexing, right? From multi-level indexing it has become single next. So earlier the year had two sub columns min and max. Now they have broken into two different columns, year min and year max. Is there any question in this? You see the difference what has happened? You compare the difference that we put it side by side. And everybody noticed the difference. Earlier we had multi-level columns, like within the year I had min and max. Now I have two separate columns for that. And how did I do that? I simply use list comprehension. Let me show you again step by step. Call for call in data aggregate dot columns. Everybody is aware, right? If I do dot columns, it gives me the number of call or like the columns. Now I can see it's a tuple where it's been overwritten. Let me quickly read on this. And the last step, I simply use a join function so that I can join these two values. So this is how I achieve the new column names. And I just replace the old columns with this value. Any questions? Any doubts? So that's how you can bring it back to single dimension. Cool. I think it's an alternate way of doing it. That's fine. Which is very important. Right now you see that this director name column. Director name column is still in the index, right? It's not a column anymore. It's an index value. For example, if I want to access this, if I want to access Adam Mecky, how can I access that? Can anyone tell me? If I want to access this Adam Mecky value, how can I access this? How can I access this value? Only the entry for this, the first one. Sorry? Come again. Index. What should be the code? Tell me. What should I say? Would this something like this work? Would something like this work? So let me show you. Let me show you. Let's say if I want to find the minimum value, here mean 2004. So this works, right? Wherever the minimum value is 2004, I'll get those rows. Now can I do the same if I want to access the name of the director like this? Why? Yes, because director name is currently index and not a column. So you see it gets key error director name. It does not recognize it as a column name. If I have to access it, I would need to do a dot log operation, which you can try on your own. But if I want to do it using the above method, I would have to first convert director name into a column. And how can I do that? I can do that using the reset index function. Once you do the reset index, you see from the column index it has become and now it has now become a column. You compare the values. Because of reset index, which was earlier a index, now this has become actually a column. You see it has moved from this trajectory, this directory, this position and has come somewhere here as the first column. Now if I want to access Adam Mck, I can do that because now the column exists. Let me also save it. So now you see I get the entry for Adam Mck only. That's how you can access the values after doing a reset index. Cool. Now we are finding the number of years active because we are trying to answer who is the most productive director. So how I can find that number of years active, you subtract the max minus the minimum. So this will give you the years active. And finally you can calculate a new column called movies per year. So I am dividing the title count, that means the count of the movies, count of the movies divided by the number of years they were active. Simply dividing this column by this column. So 6 by 11, 8 by 11, so on and so forth. So this will give you movies per year and now maybe you can do a group by director name and average of movies per year something like that. Or you can simply do a short values because it's a unique value. So this tells you who is more productive just by dividing the title by the years. That means who has directed most movies per year. So Tyler Perry has directed 1.28 movies per year. Jason Feetberg has 1.25 per year. So this tells you exactly who is actually more productive by taking into account both the number of movies as well as the number of years they were active. Is this clear? Anybody has any questions? How do you find the productivity? Cool. Yes. Now coming to the next dataset that we have. So this is medicine companies data or a drug drug companies data Pfizer. So this what is the data about? This tells you the temperature and the pressure. So this is recorded after an interval of 1 hour every day to monitor the drug stability in the drug development. So basically when you develop some kind of drug let's say COVID vaccine so you check for the stability over a period of time right. So you keep them for for certain time and monitor their temperature and the pressure of that of the solution. So these data points are therefore you should identify the optimal set of values of parameters for the stability of the drugs. So that means that what temperature and what pressure you should store the drugs to ensure their stability. Is this clear? What is data set is about? Basically at what temperature COVID vaccine and at what pressure should COVID vaccine be stored so that it remains stable and it does not you know decompose into its constituent particles or whatever molecules it has. Is that clear? Yes or no? So what is the first step? I am using the ECSV to load the data. Now if you look at it what does it tell me? It tells me the date for a given date for a given drug for a given parameter what are the values from 130 to 1230 right for 12 hours what was the temperature for this drug on 15 October 2020. Similarly on 15 October 2020 for the same drug what was the pressure from 130 to 1230. So what type of format is this? What type of format is wide or long? Wide or long? Why long? It is technically a wide format right see. So every hour it stores the data in a column. Ideally you should create a column called time and corresponding values in a long format but this is storing each time column each hour as a column. So this is actually a wide format data for even not a long format. Is that clear? Cool. So as you might have guessed now we will be using the mail, pivot, whatever we have learned to kind of make it more concise. Info I hope everybody is aware by now that it tells you what are the columns that we have how many normal values what is the data type of each. Now you see so 130 to 30 this is not a column like column are supposed to specify a physical quantity like or any particular value not so 130 when like 130 is not a column. It is a specific it's a type of value which is time it's not a particular column. So that's why this is a little unintuitive so that's why it's wide format and we will convert it into long format. So for each 12 hours we have 12 values and date, drug name and parameter, temperature, pressure. Cool. So we will be using the melt function. So the dataset has 18 rows and 15 columns. The columns are the timings temperature and pressure. So we will now restructure it using the melt function. So if you now see I'm using p.melt I'm passing the data which is the data frame. What is the ID variables that I'm interested in? The ID variables are date, parameter and drug name. That means for a given date and for a given drug for a given parameter, let temperature and pressure what are the values. At 130 the value was 23 so this is the temperature and this is the pressure. So what does this mean? Let's look at at a deeper level. So I've converted into a long format data frame. Take a note there are 3 ID variables. Why I have taken 3 ID variables, date, parameter and drug name. I said what should what should I keep in mind while creating ID variables. What is the role of ID? Like what does I think we have discussed this in the past. What does ID actually represent? What does ID actually represent? What does your student ID represent? Any thoughts? Can anyone can anyone can any two people have same student ID? Can two students have the same student ID? Yes or no? No. So basically the role of ID is to create a unique identifier. Something that collectively represents unique. Can I consider only date as an ID? Why? Right. So for the same date I can see two parameters. Similarly if I look at it maybe for the same date I could have different drugs as well right. For the same date 15th of 2th of 2th I can see two drugs. One is this? Those same indexes and together is what I mean. So for the same date I can have multiple drugs or multiple parameters. So can I take what about date and parameter? What about these two? Can I take collectively these as an ID? Why? Why yes? So I cannot write. If you look at this, 15, 10 and temperature. Let's come back here. 15, 10 and temperature. Right? 15, 10 and temperature. The first one is 15, 10 and temperature. The second one also has. There is a third one also has 15, 10 and temperature. Both of them have different values. So collectively they are also not unique. How about these three? Date, parameter and drug name. Can I take these as unique identifiers? These can be considered unique identifiers because if you look at the whole data set at these three levels date, parameter and drug name there is no repetition. For a given date, given temperature and a given drug, I will have a fixed value. So that is why I have taken these three as the ID variables. Is this clear to everyone? How do you decide an ID variable? You decide collectively what represents something unique and cannot be repeated. So this tells me that on 15th of October, this particular drug had a temperature of 23 at 130. Is that clear? So in a way, I have converted from a wide to long format with the help of PD.Mail. Cool. Next, we are kind of doing a renaming. Like by default it gives variable and value. You can rename it to make it more intuitive. So you are giving variable name as time and value name as reading. So now it has replaced with time and reading. So this is the renaming part. Rename to make it more intuitive. Any questions in this, anyone? Any doubts? Any questions, anyone? Cool. Now let's look at the pivot. Now suppose you want to convert a data back to wide format. Why would we want to do that? So basically we want to do some aggregation. So here after I have to convert this back, let's look at the pivot. Pivot is not very important here. Pivot table is more important. Yeah. So this is more important. Not even this is just visualizations. So you can take a look, not very important pivot table. So this is something important at least for this case. Here I have this data frame which says date, time, drug name and pressure and temperature. Now I am doing a pivot and it gives me an error. Why does it do so? Can anyone think why do I get this error? Did we discuss a problem with pivot function? What is the problem? Yes. If you look at the drug name, it says index contains duplicate entries and cannot reshape. So that means the drug name, this value here, this value here as duplicate. Why? Why does it has duplicate? Because you have data till 12 hours, right? From 130 to 120 or in fact, yeah. So 130 to 120 for each drug. So you have duplicate values. For this value you will have 12, 30 data, 130 data, 230 data, so on and so forth. So you have duplicate values. So what is the solution for duplicate values? We will use pivot table. So here you see I am using a dot pivot table passing the data frame, the index that I am interested in, the columns that I am interested in and values and I am taking the aggregation. So basically this will give me the average temperature across all the dates or across all the time values. So I have three days of data, 15, 16 and 17 and three drugs I have and the average temperature for each of the drug and each of the date can be found using this. First thing, in the pivot table you pass the data frame, you pass the index, you pass the columns you are interested in and the values and the aggregate function. Is there any question in this? I think if I wanted to find the pressure, the mean pressure, how would I do that? Instead of like right now average temperature, if I want to find the average pressure, how do I do that? Any thoughts? Yes, we simply replace the values from temperature to pressure. We just replace the pressure. Let me run this again. I have not run from the starting itself. Okay. Once again, let me figure out where are we missing. We do not have to find itself, so we will download. Now it should look fine. Yeah. So you see this now. I have simply replaced the temperature to pressure and I get the average pressure value. Any questions in this? Cool. Here we are kind of explaining how does pressure work. Sorry, pivot table work. One more important thing, I can combine these two into one single table as well. I can pass multiple values here. Instead of just one temperature of pressure, I can pass the multiple values also. And I can change the aggregation function. Here I have shown mean value. So this gives me the minimum pressure and the minimum temperature for each drug. Similarly, if you want to do max, you can do max as well. You can do mean as well, sum as well, whatever. Matrix you are interested in, you can do that for multiple values as well. Is that clear? You can combine them using by passing multiple values. Instead of just simple temperature of pressure, you can pass both of them together. Any doubts, any questions? Any questions, anyone? Cool. Then let us look at the last part, which is bending, which is alright. It makes sense to kind of aggregate continuous values into some smaller groups. So that we could analyze the data better. Now, let me, can you think of the groups that we can create in this dataset? What type of groups can I create in this dataset? Can anybody think? What kind of groups can we create? Yes. So I can see pressure and temperature. So I can create high-medium and low-high-pressure, medium-pressure, low-pressure, similarly high-temperature, low-pressure and medium-pressure. So what it can be used? It can be used to figure out how many drugs fall under high-pressure range? How many drugs fall under low-temperature range? So that it is easier for me to kind of bucket them and analyze the data. So that is how we can utilize the bending concept here. So how will we do that? We will use the pd.cut function. So let us see. Okay. So what is the range that we have? We have 8 degrees to 58 degrees or whatever you say in it is fair and I think it is degrees only. From 8 to 58 is the range. So the minimum value you have 8 and the maximum value is 58. So you will have to create bins among that range. So for sample or for example, I have just kind of taken these bins. So that means if anything is between 5 to 20 that becomes low. 20 to 35 becomes medium. 35 to 50 becomes high and 50 to 60 becomes very high. So just in example, you can experiment with different type of bins on your own as well. So it is just to show you the use case. So there are four bins, low, medium, high, very high and the range for them are 5 to 20, 20 to 35, 35 to 50 and 50 to 60. The code is very simple. I am passing the column temperature. The bins that are created which is this and the labels that I have which is these labels. And then finally assigning it a column, call it temporary cat category. Now you see once I run this, I can see a new column created which shows which temperature category does each of the drag below. Now if you have to create the same for pressure, will you be able to do it? How will you do it for pressure? So maybe what you can do is, look for the minimum and the maximum value of pressure. I will take pressure and display its minimum value and the maximum value. So you see it is between 3 to 30. So you can adjust your bins accordingly. So you can create pressure bins instead of 10 bins. You can call it pressure bins. Pressure points, then pressure labels. It is 3 to 20 right. So you can start with let us say 0 to, so 3 to 30, 0 to 10, then 10 to 15, 15 to 20 and 20 to 30. But this is inconsistent right. Anyways just to show you how to do that. So now you can create a category called pressure cat. What should I write? pd.cut. I will pass data tidy. The column is pressure. What should be the value of this bins? What should be the value of bins? Pressure points. Similarly for labels, it should be the pressure labels. I should be square bracket here. Not a round bracket. So now you will see that you have a new category called pressure category. Next we are checking the value counts, how many, how many number of drugs come under each category. So you see very high temperature comes very low like 5 only 5 drugs, most are in the low category. Similarly if I want to check the pressure I can do pressure cat to find the counts. So you can see again most of the here it is inverse actually. Most of the drugs come under very high category and very few comes in the high and low. Is that clear? So that is how you can kind of do binning. So that is the very brief on how you can use these kind of functions in a K study format. So that was all for today's class. Now, so see pandas is most leak covered. I have one more notebook for you. This has some additional functions. So I will share this, I can share this as reference material. So this notebook contains how to handle missing values, how to handle string methods, daytime values, and how to write into a CSV file or write in different type of files. So you can go through this at home. It uses the same dataset like this the medicine dataset or the drug developer dataset. And very easy to explain and intuitive. Like each line of code is explained at the beginning and at the end and the code itself is very intuitive. In case like here you have description on how to use non-ventuous and what are the type of values. So you can go through this, you can attempt it at home at your home and in case there are any doubts we can discuss that in the next class. Is that clear? Anybody has any questions? So this is very comprehensive, it can means good amount of functions, it will be a good practice for you and a good learning session as well. Again the application is pretty straightforward, not very complex, just the way we saw today. Once you go through this like today's lecture and the homework material, it should be good too. So that was all from my end today. I think we are sometime we will do that attendance and stuff like that. And I believe you have assignments right? Can you check if you have assignments for today? Can you see assignments? Assignments are visible right? It will get unlocked when I kind of end the class. That was more or less the content for today. Just make sure you revise what you have just studied was there a recording again and do the practice like that. I attempt the practice, notebook this is very good. This contains a lot of information, a lot of new functions that you will get to learn. So that's about today's class. Now can anybody come and help me with the attendance like you will have to take the photos? Anyone please come? Anyone? And attendance needs you, Gagg. Anybody? You can come please come take the photos of everyone. Come come quickly. You can switch on the lights and take everyone's photo like in batches so that yeah, I can upload and market attendance. In the meantime if anybody has any questions, happy to take it. We will be getting a quiz soon and I believe you would have been informed about the weightage of the quiz. Everybody knows what is the weightage for the quiz? 10 percent each. And the quizzes are not going to be easy. That's what I can tell you. So you have to revise what we have studied. There is a section right?