you Gandalf Will you be speaking about it? Episode 2 of Part K. Item 2 of lesson 3. Anforce 2. So whatever you call you perform this is, that like you express given that you die tough. I got difficulties男. You know so, are you not fond of how, assumptionsある so, to solve one possible result, we put together and calculate the handling of the two types. Today, we will link again to understand the entirely different concept present and SQL. And I will start with a simple example that we have discussed in the last session. Before that, I will share a document with all of you and I want you to create that schema that table and those entries into the document. So, I have shared the document link in the chat. I want to each and every one of you to create a table. Now, if you remember, there was one question that we were trying to solve in the last session, which we said that we will need some concepts that we haven't covered so far. How many if you remember that? So, the question that we were trying to solve was to find the employees running more than the average commonsa. How many if you remember this problem statement can you give me a answer? Yes? Did we discuss the solution to this problem statement? Did we write the query for this question? I think we did, but we did not understood the query what it is doing, what it means. So, in today's session, what we are going to be doing is we are going to try and find the correct information. How to resolve questions that we would like to expect on the standard of all the data is seen? Rather, the statement is seen in the final game, the employees running more than we come up with average. Can everybody give me a answer? This is the next session. Yes. Now, naturally, how I would want to write the query for this is, everyone, even when we are discussing this, please create a database and understand this to my level. So, here what I have is a healthy employee statement. I will try to run a describe query in the employee statement. The game, department, city, salary, rate. This is where I need to filter the employees having a salary greater than the average salary of the company. So, select employee name from employees where. Now, what should we put in the way condition? First of all, how do you understand how the way it was greater than 0? How? What is your goal? What is the type of the statement that I have and the cost present? So, what it does is, it goes go by the two to each report, after each report it. Identify whether the report follows the condition that people have in the way of the part. If it follows the condition, it is shown in the order. Otherwise, it is this part. So, what is the condition that we need to put for any individual employee? We need to put the condition that the salary should be greater than the average salary of the company. Now, everybody in each report, we are using this query is going to work. I can only see 69 people, 70 people in the meeting. Can everybody make sure to join the meeting, open the document, read the database, read the tables and insert the data in the database? I want to teach everyone how to do the identity. So, how many of the queries are going to work, and it will be a thumbs up if it is done. If it is not going to work. If I have to put it in report, what does it mean? What is the main purpose? In this query, it is wrong to say. I would like to filter the advice from this report, and now the practices are taking an adequate amount. A group of people. For you understand, I just clearly will not put the report, understand what is the sequence that is followed by the execution of any. If the people want the post instruction that is the humanities of the military or the post, is your way of work. What is the purpose that the average function is getting up, we get it on to the criteria. Aggregation is never the first instruction to be executed. First of all, the selected rule, and then write the identity and the constitution. So, here we are using that and the function to filter the most identity. If you make out the issue of this query, it means that the school is present in the session. Yes? Super. So, if I human generally question, let's break down the problem, state it into two parts. Part number one is to find the company average saloon. How to find the company average saloon? Can anybody take, you know, a ticket for it and a ticket for it and you can find a company average saloon? So, can I say, it is a very, very simple aggregate query, right? Select average of saloon from employees. Everybody comes up with an extension and a school of the president. Now, this is the result that I want to use to filter the records from the employees table. This average saloon, I want the employees who have saloon greater than this average saloon. Everybody comes up with this mix and a school of him. Yes? So, here what you need is, you need a result of a query within another query, right? And this is called as the concept of nested query. What is the concept of nested query? When you did another query that is called as nested query. Everybody comes up with this mix and all of you present with this session. Yes or no? Yes? So, first, what I want to do is, I want to find the company average saloon which is a single query. Second, what I want is, I want to use the result to filter the employees, right? And my final query would look like this. Now, everyone, if you look at this slide, the overall structure, but please turn your phones on the saloon phone, at least video to month before. This entire query that we have written, where queries present inside another query is called as a nested query. And the part of the query, basically the smaller query, inner query, is what is called as a subquit. Everybody present in the session can give me a thumbs up if the difference between a subquit and nested query is crystal clear to all of you. The thumbs down, this does not make sense to anybody present in the session. Yes? Super. So, talking about the agenda of today's session, right? In today's session, first, we started with understanding why the concept of subquit is. There is a whole different kinds of query that we recognize you, different keywords in the subquit and you can try to understand the query, you should order and at the same time understand the limited patience of using the group by operation as well. Now, I have given in today's session whatever question that we will talk about. A lot of questions, we have called by using your group, sorry, join just a little bit. Another question that we will sort of today, and we will use join just a little bit of message, but we are not going to do that. We will try to use subquities as much as possible to make sure we have a good understanding. I will make sure to do a proper comparison between the joins and the concept of subquities. I will make sure it is clear to you when to use which, and which is more optimal as well, which went to prefer if both are possible. But for today's session, let's focus only on the concept of subquities, writing a query within another query. Now, as all of you might have seen that, one additional session has been added on to your dashboard, which is the session on window functions and views. Have you seen that? Take care. For your batch, we are going to have that session after the mid-sense, because in the mid-sense window functions will not be a part of the syllabus. Whatever we cover till today will be covered or will be coming in the mid-sense examinations. The reason for swapping the two sessions is because I want to have a lab before we can go ahead with the window functions concept, so that you have enough practice of the queries and you are prepared for the mid-sense. So, in the session on Wednesday morning, we are going to have a lab instead of the session on window functions. Window functions will cover in the next week. Does that make sense to everybody? Super. Have all of you created the database that I shared with you? Super. Let's get started now. Sorry? Yeah, sure. So, first of all, was this query clear to you, right? What we have written here? What we have done is, we have written the query to fetch the average salary of the employee, and that is what we have used to filter the employees on the basis of correct. Now, to fetch the average salary of the employees, we needed to run another query, correct? We cannot use an aggregate function along with the wear clause. That is a limitation of SQL, correct? Because of the order in which the queries or the commands are executed. First command is always filtering. First you filter and then you compute the aggregate, okay? So, the previous query that we had written was not the correct syntax of comparing an employee salary with the average salary of the company. What you need to do is, first you need to compute the average salary of the company and then filter the employees on the basis of that average salary. So, what we did here was, within the entire query, we have written a smaller query, correct? The result of the entire query depends on the result of the inner query. This inner query is what is called as sub query, a query running within another query. And the entire structure, the entire query, query within a query is called as a nested query, right? Just like how we write three loops, one inside the other. The entire structure is called as nested loops, the loop inside is called as an inner loop, like that. Make sense? Super. Now, so what is the general structure of any sub query? So, this is the general structure of any sub query. Now again, the idea is, it is not like a sub query will only be used for the concept of select. We can also use the result of a sub query in the where clause of the update functions of the delete functions. Any current operations, we can use the concept of sub query in those current operations. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in this session? Yes. Now, what is important for you to understand is the execution order. So, in the execution order, there are two steps, right? The step number one is that the sub query is executed first, right? And the step number two is that the result of the sub query is used in the outer query. Everybody present in the session can give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you thumbs down if it is not making sense to anybody present in the session. Yes. Meaning, when I run this query, the steps are first the average salary of the company is computed. And then that average salary is used, the result of the query is used like this to filter the employees. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you. Yes, that is great. So, now if what is the sub queries making sense to all of you, what is the use case of the sub queries making sense to all of you? Let's talk about the different types of sub queries that exist. And the first one that we have is scalar sub query. What is a scalar sub query? A scalar sub query is a sub query that returns exactly one value. For example, this sub query that we have written here, can I say that the output of this particular query will always be one single value which is the average salary of all the employees. Can everybody give me a yes or this makes sense to all of you? Yes. And these type of sub queries are called as scalar sub queries. Now, because the output is a single number, okay. Or a single value. When you are going over your table, row by row, okay. To filter the entries based on let's say any particular attribute which is in our case, salary. Right? Which in our case is salary, okay. When you go to any particular entry, the output of the scalar sub query can actually be used along with all of these operators, which operators equal to greater than, greater than equal to less than, less than equal to not equal to. Everybody, a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. If there's a single output that is being returned for each row, we can go ahead and extremely sorry. Yeah. So if a single output is being returned, when I go row by row over the database to compare or filter the elements based on any particular attribute, this attribute is something that I can compare with the output of that query. And I can compare it using these operators. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes. Super. Now. Now. Here everyone, what if whatever sub query that you have written returns multiple outputs. In that particular case, we'll be able to use the equal to operation. For example, let's say you've got the salary of five employees or top five employees salary you have received. In that case, can you do salary equal to whatever the output of that particular queries? For example, what I'm trying to say is, let's say I write a query like this. Select employee name from employees where salary is greater than select salary from employees order by salary descending limit five. So what I've done is I've written a query that is not going to return one single output, but it is going to return the top five salary employees salary in the company. Now what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to check if the salary of this particular employee is greater than the salary of the top five employees of the company will this query work everyone. Everybody presenting the session a thumbs up or thumbs down in the chat will this query work. What do you think for a font type you want I can increase. No, this query is not going to work. Why? Because the output of the inner query itself will be a list of employees or list of salaries. So you cannot use these operators anymore. Here what kind of operators you can use is see nothing is written error. Subquery returns more than one row. What type of operators you can use is select employee name from employees where salary in maybe. So again that is my equal problem statement a version problem statement which does not support the limit and in all any some sub queries. So yes select salary. Select salary. But overall the idea is you cannot directly use these type of functions within the sub query as well and even then the problem here is the problem here is that. Majorly what we were trying to understand was that whenever the output of the sub query will be a list of values will be more than one values. We cannot use the operators comparison operators everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session yes or no. Yes super. So then what is the way to solve this or what type of queries works where or what is those sub queries called which returns multiple outputs multiple rows at the same time those queries are called as. Multi row sub queries and again even the problem with multi row sub queries is that in multi rows of queries it is not possible for us to use these comparator operators. Now what you said is absolutely correct that we cannot use limit and these functions directly into the sub query so we'll talk about how to do that as well coming back to the original query. Let's try to solve the next question and understand the meaning of this sub query. So what I want is I want all of you to try to write the query for this question which is we need to find the employees working in the departments located in Bangalore. So the first thing that I want all of you to do is I want all of you to identify the rows that you will need to query over or the table that you will need to query over to get this what or how will the order of execution of this look like basically how many queries we will need in total to execute this and then try to write the query. It's 1145 I'll give you three minutes to try to write the query for this given example. So I want all of you to try to write the query for this one. Thank you. . . . . Let's try to understand what this query is. Let's look at the because I want to filter the employees let's have a look at the employees table again. Now in the employees table I have the employee ID the employee name the department ID in the city. So should I just try to query on the employees table to give me a list of employees where the city is equal to Bangalore. Everybody present in the session I want all of you to give me an answer select employee name from employees where city is equal to Bangalore. Is this the right query for this problem statement everyone yes or no? No, this is not the right query right. This is the query that will answer the question select the employees who are from Bangalore. Okay. Not that they are working in the departments located in the Bangalore. So let's have a look at the department stable as well. If I look at the department stable I have the department location present in the department stable. So here what you want to do is you first of all want to find out the list of those employees where the department or so you want to find out the list of those departments where the department location is Bangalore. So which query will help you do that select department ID from departments where location is equal to Bangalore. So department 17 and 8 are located in Bangalore. Now what you want is you want to find out the list of all the employees who are working in this department. So what you need to do is you need to result you need to use the result of the query that we've written here to filter the employees table. So here you will do select employee name. We will look at the city of those employees as well from employees where department ID in. So here I don't want to check if the department ID is equal to one specific department ID or not. What I want is I want to check if my department ID lies within this list that is shared by the sub query or not. Let us try to execute this query every work. If I execute this query you can see that even the city of the person is Delhi, Mumbai or anything. That particular employee works in the department that is located in Bangalore. Everybody present in the session can give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes or no? Yes, that's great. So now I have another question for all of you which is is there any other way that we can solve the given problem statement? Is there any other way we can write the query to solve the question? Try to write the query using joints. Here is the question again try to write the query for this using joints everyone. Very good. So here what I want to do is this is my department stable in which I have the department name present and the location present. I want to filter the list of departments on the basis of the location. At the same time what I want to do is in the employees table I have the department ID present. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to do select E dot employee name E dot city from employees join departments on D dot. Sorry, departments D on E dot department ID is equal to D dot department ID. Now I have selected the employees. Here what you can do is there are multiple ways in which you can put the condition I will simply do where D dot location is equal to Bangalore. You can put this filter condition in the joints as well but unknown column E dot employee name. Oh sorry I have not used the areas for the employees my bad employees E and D dot location equal to Bangalore and you can see we got the same 12 results here as well. Everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up if this query is crystal clear to all of you. Please feel free to give me a thumbs down if there's anybody present in the session who's not clear with this query. People not happy with the responses everybody can give me a yes if this is making sense to all of you. I'll show you the query here as well if you want. Thank you. Now if both the queries make sense to all of you present in the session. Sorry in exams you can use either of the methods yes sorry the in the exam goal will be to write a query that gives you the correct result until unless it's explicitly mentioned in the problem statement the type of query that you have to use in the question. Now the major point is between the query one that uses the in clause in the sub query and the query to that uses the joins which is more optimal. Let me ask this question to all of you present in the session. So you think is more of the join. So I launched the quiz I want each and every of you to give me the answer to the question again I was the question what do you think I'm not asking you to give me the correct answer what do you feel based on the discussions that we've had so far which query will be more optimal. Okay. Okay. So everyone here in this particular case the correct answer is the join query. Why the join query even though the Cartesian product needs to be computed will talk about that when we know more about indexes but please make sure the remember that between a sub query and the joins generally joins is more optimal and predictable. Okay, so whenever there's a possibility of using a join we're going to prefer using a join in that case the reason being whenever there's a requirement of implementing the in clause in a sub query right internally majorly the databases converts it into a join itself. Even though you would be writing a sub query internally a conversion to a join would happen and the query the base query that will be executed will be a join query will talk about this more in the future sessions but everybody a thumbs up first of all if everything that we've discussed so far is crystal clear to all of you meaning sing scalars of queries in multi rows of queries makes sense to all of you present in the session. That is great. So by the end of the session we will also write different queries where it would not be possible to execute the queries using joints right. What this gives us an impression is that for all the queries where the in keyword is being used or where the exists keyword will be used right or where not exists any all keywords will be used right will be possible to replicate why a joins no that is not the case there are a lot of problem statements that can be created or lot of queries requirements that can be there where joins will not be used. So we will talk about those type of queries as well for now let's move on to the next concept to try and understand the exists keyword as well right again the goal is to try to write the questions as much as possible with your. Sub query we should not be using the concept of join here and the question that I want you to solve is to find the departments having at least one active project. Again this is the problem statement that can be solved using joins in the distinct keyword right but that's not the goal the goal is to try to write a query that helps us in using the join query. Try to write this with the concept of using sub queries everyone. Sub query we should not be using the concept of join here and the question that I want you to solve is to find the answer that I want you to solve. So using joins it is very easy that what we're going to do is we're going to join the departments and which table. So let's first of all have a look at the tables that we will need to execute this query right so I have the departments in the projects table right so. In the departments I have the department ID name location and budget there is no information about a project okay let's have a look at the project table. In the project table I have the project ID the project name the owning project department the project budget and the project status let's have a look at the project status a couple of entries in the project status select. Distinct project status from projects so I have active completed and on hold what I need is I need a list of the active projects okay can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session yes or no yes now everyone. Here what you have is you have the department ID through which you can link the department table so what you want to do is you want to join these two tables departments and the projects table using the department ID okay so that for each department you have a list of all the projects that are present. Okay then what you want to do is you want to filter those projects on the basis of the active status so you will put a condition where the project status is equal to active but you only need the list of the department once so one department can have multiple active projects so you're going to select distinct department. Everybody a thumbs up with the join query makes sense to all of you present in the session yes or no yes so let's first write that select. D. Department name from departments join projects D. Department ID is equal to P dot owning department ID so that D dot name from DEP RTME. Oh department ID and equal to P dot owning department ID okay join is done now any condition on the basis of which we need to filter yes where P dot project status is equal to active right now what this will do is this will give us a list of the departments but departments are repeating here you can see the engineering department is present two times they have two active projects right so what I'm going to be doing is I'm just going to make it distinct everybody a thumbs up first of all if the query using joins makes sense to all of you present in the session a thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody come on everybody appreciating a little bit more responses here if this makes sense to all of you thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody present in the session is great now let's try to write the same using sub query concept as well okay so in sub queries again what I can do is in sub queries I can write down a function a code where first of all I will get the list of all the project IDs which are active and then what I'm going to do is I am going to use those department IDs where I'm going to use those department IDs to fetch the names of the departments right so what will be the query that I'll be using in this particular case first of all what I will do is select distinct owning department ID from projects where project status is equal to active and once I've done that I need to check if my department ID in the department table is present in this or not I'm going to just write this in the form of a sub query I'm going to do select department name from department's where department ID in and here goes your query and you can see you get the same list of all the departments everybody present in the session if both of the queries make sense to all of you present yes or no please feel free to give me a thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody present in the session can you come and just give me one second I'll just copy the query once and then yeah so what was your question the reason why we did not write distinct over there is because here what we've done is we've gone over the department's table in the sub query even when you don't add the word distinct is going to give the same output yes absolutely correct in the sub query even if you don't add the word distinct is going to give you the same output why is it going to give you the same output let's try to understand that as well so here even if you don't execute the sub query with the distinct keyword what happens is the sub query will return a list of the department IDs correct so if I go back to the previous query I remove distinct I will get the engineering department two times the department number three or two times right but now in the outer query what we're doing is we are filtering the department table to check if any particular department IDs present in this list or not so even one is present here twice in the outer query we're going over the row where department ID is one only once that is why without distinct as the without distinct as well you're getting the same result everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you so yes that is absolutely correct I mean distinct may not be required in this particular question super people super that is great now just one second right now here I would have a very interesting question to ask all of you and that question is here in the department table let's see how many departments do we have so we're going to do select start from departments now here if you see what I have is in the department table I have eight departments present so what it is going to do is it is going to go to the first row and check whether the department ID is present in the given keyword or a given list or not then it is going to go to department to going to check if it is present in the given list or not three check it is present in the list or not four it is present in the list or not but my bigger question to all of you is when I run this query for the first row it needs the result of this query it needs the list for the second row it again needs the list for the third row it again needs the list for the fourth row it again needs the list so will this particular query when executed the query will it run for each row of the outer query or will it be executed exactly once before going to the outer query what do you think is going to happen in this particular case is the query going to run once or is the sub query going to run eight times everyone please answer the quiz that I have posted so here everyone the correct answer is that the inner sub query will be executed only once and I will tell you why for the row one when you are going to run the query what will be the result of the inner query 1133578 for the row two when you run the inner query what will be the result of the inner query everyone same right 1133578 for the row three also it will be same for the row four also it will be same meaning the inner query is actually independent of the attribute or the record that we are trying to filter in the outer query these type of sub queries are called as non correlated query is right and in this particular case each sub query is executed or the sub query given sub queries executed exactly once before the outer query starts executing the result of the sub query is cached and is used for the next rows to filter the next records the next rows everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session yes or no yes super but if I give you this question everybody can you take three to four minutes and try to write the solution of the query for this problem statement which is to find the employees earning more than their department salary to find the employees earning more than their department salary you you you you you you you you you you you now see in this particular query okay can this query be executed using joins first of all So, can this query be executed using joins? Yes or no? The answer to this is no, why the answer to this is no, the reason the answer to this is no is because in this case as well even if you join the tables together, even for the department details you join the tables together. Again that is not required as well the query can be solved just by using your employees table as well. In the employees table what I need is for every individual employee, I need to find the average salary of the employees department. I don't have to compute the salary again because this is average function right average function is something for which we will be needing sub query as we have already seen the aggregate functions cannot be used in the where clause right. So, this is a question where sub query is a must but what would be the type of sub query that we will execute here. Let us try to first of all write down the structure of that sub query. So, what I will need to do is I will need a select statement right select now what I need is I need the list of employees right. So, let us say I select employee name right from employees where there. Everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up with the baseline structure of the queries crystal clear to all of you. A thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody present in the session. People I would appreciate all of you to give me a yes or no if it is clear to all of you there is one thumbs down. Chinmay can you please help me with what is not making sense. So, what I want is I want to select the employee names from the employees table where it follows some certain condition right correct Chinmay. Super that is great. Now, what is the condition that I need to follow the condition that I need to follow is that the employee should have more salary than the salary of the department department that the employee works in right. So, here what I want is I want to write down employee salary is greater than the average salary of the employee department correct. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you presenting the session yes or no yes. Now, to get the average salary what I would need is I would need to write a sub query right. Can everybody give me a yes or this makes sense to all of you presenting the session yes. Now, in the sub query can I return the average salary of all the departments of all the employees? No, you want to figure out the average salary of the department in which the employee that you are trying to filter belongs to meaning the inner query needs the attribute from the outer query here the inner query is dependent on the outer query and let us see how we will write the code for us. Select employee name from employees where in the where clause what are we going to do? Where salary is greater than select average of salary from employees where now the employee stable that you are using in the sub query in that employee stable the department ID should be equal to the department ID in the employee stable that is present in the outer query and everybody give me a yes or this makes sense to all of you present in the session yes. Now, here the problem is ambiguity. If you use employees that department ID is equal to employees that department ID how will the executioner understand which employee table we are referring to here. So, whenever there is an ambiguity everyone what we would need to do is we would need to use the aliases. Let us call it E O which is the employee table of the outer query and I will do E S which is the employee table of the sub query right. Now, here I will do where ES dot department ID is equal to E O dot department ID and here you can change this a little bit as well. So, average of inner ES dot salary we need to compute and here also we are checking with E O dot salary outer employee salary we are checking and we are selecting the name of the outer employee E O dot employee and here you can see you will get a list of all the employees whose salary is greater than the average salary of that department. Can everybody give me a yes or this makes sense to all of you present in the session a yes or no. Please feel free to give me a thumbs down if there is anything here that does not make sense to anybody. People appreciating a little bit more responses here if this query is making sense to all of you please feel free to give me a thumbs down if this query does not make sense to anybody present in the session. That is great my friends. Now, what I want is I want all of you to take two minutes and try to modify the query in such a way that you print the employee name the employee salary, the department ID of the employee, the department name of the employee and the average salary of that department as well. So, when you are executing this query right what I want you to output is in the output I want the employee name employee salary, the department name and the department average salary. Everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up if the requirement makes sense to all of you thumbs down if there is anything that does not make sense to anybody. Check out. Meanwhile, when you write the query I will quickly take the attendance everyone. sirsanam bhol yamma geek Every V at the end. Please look this item rights everywhere Thank You. Everyone please look this side. The last two people can you please stand up. Thank you. Still on the body. Everyone in one last time can you please look this side all of you. Thank you. Everyone this side please. Buddy sir. Can you please look this side. Thank you. So again the reason for giving this question is for you people to understand how attributes from the subquery if they can be printed in the outer query or not as the subquery is being executed first. Everyone please look this side. Everyone this side please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Cool. Give me one second we will try to write the query for this. Which part? B. Is it new? Cool. Okay. So this is the question for which we need to write the query let's try to execute this query everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Everybody present in the session let's try to write the query here. So select EO.EmployeeName. Now along with the name what I also need is I need the department name. I need the salary as well. So for department name I would need to join the department table. So after the select and the from is complete I will write join departments D on EO outer dot department ID. So I will write join department ID. Join is complete. Oh sorry extremely sorry everyone. Select employee name from employee where EO dot. So on the outer employee we have to join this. So join departments D on EO dot department ID is equal to D dot department ID. Now what do I need to select? Join. Employee ID. D dot department underscore ID. Now what do I need to select from the outer table I need to select EO dot employee name. I need to select EO dot salary. Outer employee salary. I need to select the department name. D dot department name and I need to select the average salary of the department as well. Now average salary of the department how is it present is it it is present in the inner query in the inner query. We are computing the average salary of the department right. So we are simply going to do ES dot average salary. Everybody present in the session are in the arch. I will have to write again my bad from employees EO. So join departments D on EO dot department ID is equal to D dot department ID. For example, join curtain bus. Now in the join what I am going to do is I am going to add the additional details that I want. What are the additional details that I want. Let me write that down as well. So I need the employee name. I already have the employee name. Along with that I need the department name. So I am going to do D dot department name. I need the salary. So I am going to do EO dot salary. Let us try to print this if it works or not. It absolutely works. Now what I also need is I need the average salary of the department D. How am I going to do that. Here you can see what I have done is I have already fetched the average salary from the employees. Where the department ID of the employee is equal to the department ID of the subquake that we are executing. So I have already fetched the average salary of the department in which the employee is present. So I would try to just do that average of ES dot salary. And this is not working. Everybody present in the session can you help me understand why the square is not working. Sorry. Absolutely correct. So why is this query not working. Everyone tell me if you have a fall loop. If you take a variable declare a variable inside the fall loop. Initialize a variable inside the fall loop. Can you use the variable outside the scope of the fall loop? No, you cannot. Exactly like that here as well. The attributes of some query cannot be used outside the scope of that subquake. Everybody present in the session can give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. No, but still the scope of the subquake is limited to those brackets. Again, so what will be the correct way to write this? What is the correct way to write this is if you want to fetch the average salary of the employee. What you will need to do is you will need to go back instead of directly using the average salary of the employees. What you will actually have to do is you will actually have to run another subquake here where you are going to compute the average and you are going to use it as. One additional bracket I have used. I can just say department average salary. And this is what will be the solution. Everybody present in the session can give me a thumbs up first to follow this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes, that is great. Everyone your attendance has been processed. Please raise the discrepancies if there is any nudge. The next time we will get over in 5 to 7 minutes. Please check if you have been marked present or not. Please raise the discrepancy here. Create a nudge for the discrepancy. Now. Okay. So here the most important thing that you need to understand is that if your subquaries present in the where clause. If your subquaries present in the where clause the attribute to the subquery cannot be used in the outer query. There is only one way in which we can use the attributes of the subquery in the outer query. If the attributes of the subquery are exposed to the outer query like how we have done here. So what we have done is the attributes of the subquery in the select clause we have exposed that we have given that to the outer query to be used as the department average salve and that is where it is accessible outside. Otherwise that is not accessible outside in the outer query. We will solve some questions later on where this will be possible for us to do. Basically where we will learn how to expose this to the outside subquery. But for now can everybody give me a thumbs up if this is crystal clear to all of your thumbs down. Does anything that does not make sense to anybody present in the session? Yes. So this type of query that we have written here is what is a classical example of correlates of weights. Now what are correlated subqueries? Where is correlated subqueries or subqueries where the inner query depends on the outer query. Which means in this type of subqueries. In this type of subqueries. For each row of the outer query the sub query will be executed again. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes or no please feel free to give me a thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody. Come on everybody. Is this clear that is clear that is great. Now people if this makes sense to all of you present in the session let's try to solve the next question. Everybody present in the session can you please try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write three to four minutes to think about this. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. Come on everyone. So the query will just be back in a minute. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. So let's try to write the query for this problem statement. Super. So, find the departments whose average employee salary is greater than the overall company average salary, right? Great. So, what do I need for this particular problem statement? For the department's table, I need the average salary of all the departments that are present or all the employees that are present in that particular department. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes. Or what else I can say is, if I go to the employees table and I want to find out the list of all the departments where the average salary of those departments follow some certain conditions, can I say what I actually need to do here is, I need to group all the employees by their departments. Can everybody give me a yes if this makes sense to all of you and compute the average salary of that? Correct everyone? Yes. So, let us try to do that as well first. Okay, what do I want is, I want select E dot, I need the department name so I will need to join the department table as well. So, select E dot, sorry, average of E dot salary, okay, as department average salary. Along with that, what I need is, I need the department name so I'm going to do D dot department name, okay. Now from which table? From employees E join departments D on E dot employee ID, sorry, E dot department ID is equal to D dot department ID, take a join is complete. Now, what I also need to do is, I need to group these on the basis of the department. Now, if you group them on the basis of the department ID, then the problem will be that you will not be able to use department name attribute in the select clause. Why? Because you have already seen that any non aggregated attribute that you are using in the select clause or in the select part should be a part of your group by clause. So, here what I'm going to do is, I'm going to group the data by the D dot department name, okay. Now, do I need to return the list of all the department name, sorry, there is some error. D dot department name and average salary is common. Now, here what I've received is I've received the department name and the average salary of each of these departments, but is this what I need? This is what I need, but I need to filter these departments on the basis of the departments having a salary greater than the average salary company. So, here now to filter these departments, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to use the having clause having department average salary greater than I want the average salary of the entire company. So, I'm going to do select average salary from employees. And now what you can see is you only have a list of those departments whose average salary is greater than the average salary of the company. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if the final query is still clear to all of your thumbs down. Does anything in this query that does not make sense to anybody present in the session? Everybody appreciating a little bit more responses here if this makes sense to you, please give me a thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody. Yes? Suba. So, the question that I want all of you to solve is to find the employees earning more than any HR employee. You need to find a list of all the employees earning more than any HR employee. So, this is very simple. Even again, what I just need to do is, I need to select the employee name and salary from the employees where the salary is greater than. Now, here what I've done is I've used an any clause. Why I've used an any clause? Let's have a look at this. Let's read the inner query. Select salary from employees E, join departments D, on E dot department, I D equal to D dot department, I D where D dot department name equal to HR. So, what the inner query is giving me is inner query is giving me a list of all the employees that belongs to the HR department. Now, the any keyword lets you compare this with all the attributes that are or all the records that are returned and check if any one sorry, the question was more than any HR employee. So, what I do is it lets us compare the data with all the records and see if even one record that is returned is satisfying the condition, then we will select this particular employee. Everybody a thumbs up with the use of the any keyword makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes. I am coming up with that. Now, can this be solved without using the any keyword as well? Can this be solved without using the any keyword as well? Yes, how? If I want to filter an employee whose salary will be greater than any employee in the HR, what I can just do is instead of using the any clause can I just try this? I have this query, okay? In this query what I am going to do is instead of the any clause, I am just going to return the minimum salary from the employees where the department is HR, okay? Not the maximum the minimum salary, right? And I will just check if the salary of any particular employee is greater than the minimum salary, you are going to get the same result because if it is greater than the minimum employee with the HR in the HR department, it is going to be greater than at least one person in the HR department. Everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you? Generally, all the any queries can also be executed using min, max or these aggregate functions in general, but this was just for me to introduce to you what the use case of the any keyword is. Now, I will give you a very interesting question and I want all of you to take five minutes to try to solve the question. This is the last question I promise. And the question is to find the employee who salary is greater than at least one employee from the same city but a different department. Everybody can you give me a thumbs up if the problem statement is making sense to all of you? Yes, superb my friends. Then I promise this is the last question. Now, going back to the nudges, Ankush Tomar. Ankush Tomar, are you present in the session? Okay. Trishandas, where? Divyanch Sanny, Raghvesh Sharma, Kavisham, Dheval Mittal, Nihar Dahake, Samrithi Bhamik, where? Venkat Sri Navasara, Venkat Sri Navasara 1053, Rujul Bansal, Rujul Bansal, Nippun Kalsothur, Charan, Bumi Deshpande, Arya Kumar, Vibhavagarwal, Kanishka Singh, Asadulla Hussein, Ayurvedic, Ankit, Anutsutra, Alehadithya, Sartak Suri, Datsi. So, what I want is, first of all, I want to filter the employees. I want to get a list of all the employees where the E2 dot city is equal to E1 dot city, meaning the city same as the outer employee, and E2 dot department ID, this is the symbol for not equals, not equal to E1 dot department ID, meaning employees from the same city but a different department. Now, here I am going to get a salary list of all of those employees. I am just checking if the current employee salary is greater than any of these employees. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Thumbs down if this query does not make sense to anybody present here. Now, again, everyone, this is also a problem statement that can be solved simply by using the min keyword as well. So, instead of selecting the salary of all the employees, I can just select the minimum salary of all the employees that follows the criterion. I can just check if this is greater than that or not and this will be the answer. Everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you 23 rows above and 23 rows here as well, same 23 rows, same result. Right? Super. Now, people if this makes sense to all of you first of all that is it from my side in today's class, thanks a lot.