you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you all so you you you you you you you you Some of the topics given over here are not very important and hence I have not included them in the current note but once I give you a type notes for this particular topic you'll see a lot of other topics will be covered again not very important but you might go ahead and give it a read. Okay, having that said let us get started with the very basic why do we even need memory management. Now whenever many programs are running at the same time where are these programs being kept. Suppose all these programs are there where are these being kept. Are all these programs going to need a RAM? Definitely they all will but we have learned that the RAM is limited. Right. So what should happen? There are a couple of things which OS needs to decide. Right. Which process will get the memory? How much work will each process do or how much memory will each process require to do that amount of work? Okay, when exactly should we place this process? Right. How do we protect the process from accessing the other process memory? And how do we reduce the memory space stage? Okay, and that is why we need memory management. So whenever a program runs you all know it becomes a process and process is going to have things like code variables objects stack heap and some temporary data but again RAM is going to be limited. So the OS is going to manage memory for the allocation for protection for sharing for tracking free and use memory for efficient users of memory. The RAM we have seen all that in the first few classes of OS. Okay. Now all these are the decisions that the OS needs to make. Similarly we have learned that whenever I have two processes running or multiple processes running can they enter into the memory of the other program? No, ideally they should not. Like Chrome should not be able to access the data of a what's up or any other charting app. Okay, a game should not be able to modify any other apps memory. Okay, one code should not modify the other code and to stop this the OS and the hardware uses memory protection. Okay, and how it does that we will understand with the help of logical address and physical address. Okay, so what is exactly logical address and physical address? Whenever a program is running it does not directly use the actual RAM address. Okay, CPU is going to generate a logical address for it. Okay, the distinction that we are trying to make over here is only because I don't want any program to know where it is located in the actual physical memory. So the CPU is going to go ahead and just a minute. Yeah, so the CPU is going to go ahead and generate a logical address because the program should not directly know the real RAM location because the real RAM location if you think about it will keep on changing with the different programs which will be running on it. Okay, and it should be protected as well. Okay, so logical address lets every program behaves as if it is starting from the zero address even if it is. So where else in the actual physical memory? Is that clear? Okay, this logical address is also known as the virtual address. So the CPU says I want to access 200 from the program's point of view. This memory is going to look like from zero to 200. Okay, so the program feels like it is its own memory space completely, but that might not be true. The physical address is the actual address located inside the RAM. So suppose if the logical address is 200, the physical address might be 5200 because in logical addressing address always starts from zero, but in the RAM it can start at any location. Is that clear? Okay, so who is making this conversion? I hope you have understood the reason behind it why we I need logical and physical separate because I don't want to directly let the program access physical address first point. Second point is that data inside RAM is ever changing. Okay, if the data keeps on changing and I pro let the program know about the physical address, it will have to update there as well. And I don't want that complexity in my program. Okay, and that is why we have two separate addresses. So who is making this change the memory management unit is doing this change. Okay, CPU is going to generate the logical address and RAM uses physical address. The memory management unit comes in between. It is like a translator. It's a hardware that is going to convert the two addresses. Okay, and it is also going to check whether a process is trying to access some other memory, which is allowed, which is outside the scope of the actual process. Okay, so here you see the logical address is based upon the page number or the segment plus the offset. We will discuss what are these later on and the physical address is made up of the frame address and the offset. Again, we will discuss that later on. Okay, is that clear everyone any doubt? Okay, so this MMU has two jobs first to convert this logical address into physical address. Second is to make sure that none of the programs are trying to access address, which is not belonging to that particular process. And that's it. Okay, and this brings us to valid and invalid memory access. So a process should only access its own memory. Okay, for simplicity, we will assume that the base address is the starting address in the RAM and the limit is going to be the size of allowed memory. Okay, now CPU generates the logical address. Okay, now before allowing the system to actually go ahead and access the address, it will check is the logical address less than the limit. If it is, it means that my program is trying to access its own memory and hence it is valid. It can go ahead and access it. However, if the logical address is greater than equal to the limit, it will say that this address is invalid. It is not where your code is located. You cannot access that. Does that make sense? Okay, so let us say if the base is 5000, okay, and the limit is 1000 and the logical address is 700. So right now we are checking the logical address is 700. Is it less than the limit 1000? Yes, it is. It means that I am trying to access my own memory and hence this access is going to be a valid access. Is that clear? Okay, now similarly think about the block access. When will block access happen? When the base address is 5000, limit was only 1000. But the logical address being asked by the CPU is 1200. Here you clearly see that 1200 is greater than 1000 and that is why my current program is trying to access someone else's memory and hence I will be blocking it. Who is who is technically going to block it? The OS is going to block this because the process is trying to go outside the allowed range. Is that clear everyone? Very, very basic. Great. Moving on, so you have always learned that whenever I am granting any process memory, we prefer contiguous memory allocation, right? We have studied about a lot of data structures also which have contiguous memory allocations. So what is happening over here? Each process is given one continuous block of memory and this is known as contiguous allocation. Now it looks very simple. You have this memory and you allocate a contiguous block to the program and the processes can be stored over here. Now this can create some problems and I believe you already know about these problems. The problems are that the memory allocated can be larger than what was required. So here you will have free blocks of memory. Okay. Now this free block of memory can cause two problems. One is known as internal fragmentation, other is known as external fragmentation. So suppose the partition given to you was 100 MB and your process required only 70 MB. So a whole has been created in the memory of 30 MB and it is within the memory that you have granted to the particular process. This is known as internal fragmentation. The wasted space is inside the allocated block. Okay. Next you have external fragmentation. In this again what will happen? You have allotted one contiguous chunks and multiple processes are stored. So you see you have scattered memory holes over here. Okay. These scattered memory holes, if you check it is 20 MB, 30 MB, 50 MB which contributes to a total of 100 MB. Okay. So if a process needs 80 MB continuously, it can it be allocated even if I have 100 MB available. No, I cannot allocate it because the largest free block is only 50 MB. So I cannot allocate 80 MB. So the contiguous allocation as you see is not flexible. Okay. And model systems are going to solve this internal fragmentation and external fragmentation with a technique which is known as paging. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt as of now? Okay. Go ahead, just review whatever we have done till now mainly focusing on this. I will ask you a couple of numerical based on this. Okay. Based address, limit and logical address is given to you. If the logical address is within the limit you can access memory otherwise it is invalid. Pretty simple. Yeah. So I am going to launch a quiz and you tell me whether the access is valid or invalid. Okay. A lot of you gave the wrong answer. Please remember the logical address has to be lesser than the limit. The logical address cannot be greater than equal to. Why not greater than equal to because if you remember the memory is always going to start from zero. So will you even have the nth value? No, you will never have that. Okay. So if you see over here the base address is 12,000, limit is 4,096 and the logical address is also 4,096. So what is the valid range? The valid range of the address is going to be from zero to 4095 only. Right. So now you see that the logical address is greater than or equal to the number of the limit. Okay. And that is why it is going to be in a valid in nature. Is that clear? Any doubt? Okay. It cannot be equal to because the memory is always going to start from zero. And so the next one is pretty simple theoretical question. So let's go ahead and see what the answer is. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Great. So memory management is always going to help you in memory protection which you just saw in the previous numerical as well. You have stopped the program from accessing some other programs memory. Okay. So memory management is directly memory protection. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let's go. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, now you see that right now the logical address is lesser than the limit and that is why it is going to be a valid logical address. And then according to this you can calculate the physical address. Now physical address is going to be nothing but the base address that you have added with the logical address. So, you are going to have 16095 as the answer. Okay, pretty simple. Okay, now we will see how the OS is going to handle internal fragmentation and external fragmentation. And as we said that it is going to handle it with the help of one technique known as paging. Okay. So, what is paging exactly? Paging is nothing but a memory management technique. Okay. Now what is going to happen here? That I am going to divide my data into pages and frames. Okay. Now, suppose that you have a logical memory, you will divide the logical memory into fixed size blocks and all these blocks are known as pages right now. Okay. Then you will take the physical memory which is the RAM and you will divide the RAM into frames. Okay. Now each page of a process that you see over here can be stored inside any free frame that you have in the memory. Now please remember that the size of the page is going to be exactly the same as the frame size. Now if the paste size and the frame size is same, you can see there is going to be no internal or external fragmentation. Is that clear? Okay. Great. So, I hope you can understand that pages are the part of the process. This is going to exist in the logical memory whereas frames are going to be the part of the RAM. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt in this? Any doubt? Okay. Okay. Okay. So, now here what kind of questions you can receive that you can be given the page size or the frame size and you can be asked how many number of pages are possible. Okay. So, suppose I give you the size of the process and I give you the page size. The number of pages can be calculated by taking the seal value of their division. Okay. Similarly, I can also calculate the number of frames. Number of frames are going to be the physical memory size divided by the frame size. So, see an example over here. The process size is 18 Kb and the paste size is 8 Kb. How many number of pages will I have? I will have total five number of pages. Is that clear? Similarly, if I have RAM of 32 Kb and frame size of 4, I am going to have 32 by 4 which is 8 frame numbers. Okay. So, now what internally happens? We are going to maintain something known as a page table. Now, in a page table, every page is associated with a frame. So, how internally it is working? That if you go to that particular frame, you will be able to find the page over here. Okay. And this page table is going to help you in faster lookups. Is that clear? So, with the help of paging and frames, what have we accomplished? We have removed the external fragmentation. Okay. Internal fragmentation may happen, but it is not very common. Okay. So, we have removed the page table which is going to store the different frames and the different pages which are stored in that particular frame. So, it is an easy way to know which page is stored exactly where in the RAM with the help of the frame. Now, who manages it? The OS is going to manage it. Is that clear? Okay. So, as of now, you can see page 0 is stored in frame 5. Page 1 is stored in frame 2. Page 2 is stored in frame 8 and so on. Okay. Any doubt at this point? Yes. Okay. Now, each process will have its own page table because the process will have fragments which are known as the pages. Is that clear? Everyone? Any doubt? Okay. This never calculate directly rather it is always found in the page table itself. Okay. Now, in paging, the logical address will have two parts. If you remember the very first few slides, we discussed that logical address has two parts. One is known as the page number and the other one is known as the offset. Okay. What is the page number? Page number is it tells where exactly is the required data contained at the moment? And offset tells the exact position inside that page. Okay. Which means that you are getting a particular range over here. So, the page size is 1 kb and the logical address is given. You can find out the page number by integer division of this and offset by can be given by the remainder of this. Okay. So, you can see what is happening? It is a integer division for the page number and remainder for the offset. Any doubt as of now? No. It is always equal size. That is how we are avoiding internal fragmentation, the external fragmentation. Okay. Everything is of the same size. Okay. The earlier the problem that we are facing was that we can allocate any amount of memory whatever was required by the process and that created holes. Now, I cannot accommodate the future request. So we make sure everything is in our single space and then whatever is required will be allocated. Okay. So, logical thing will also be divided into pages which can go into the frames and hence holes are removed. That is how it is working. Okay. Any other doubt? Any other doubt? Okay. Okay. I guess we have done the example already. Okay. Okay. So, I hope if I give you the process size and the page size, you can figure out that how many pages can you form from it and the size of the page. Just a moment. Okay. Just one more addition that please remember that the external fragmentation is completely removed. Internal fragmentation can still be there. Okay. And then on so the next quiz. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, you see over here the process size is 18, page size is 4KB. Now, I can say how to find the number of pages. It is going to be the seal value of 18 divided by 4 which is going to give you 5. Now what is the allocated memory? What is the allocated memory? If I have 5 number of frames and the page number of pages and each page size is going to be 4KB, then total allocated memory is going to be 20KB. And what is the process size which I have required? Only 18KB and that is why if I talk about internal fragmentation, how much memory is still going to be available? This comes out to be 20 minus 18 which gives you 2KB. I hope that is clear everyone. Any doubt in this? Any doubt? Okay. So, similarly if I now give you the page size and the logical address, you can also calculate the page number on the offset. Yes. Page number is given by integer division and offset is done by remainder. Please remember that. So please remember whenever I want to calculate the page number, page number is nothing but the page size divided by the logical address. So, this is going to be sorry, the logical address divided by the page size. Okay. So, this is going to be 770 divided by 256 which gives you 3 and the offset that you have is going to be the logical address, remainder, the page size that you have which gives you 2 at the moment. Okay. So, we are basically saying go to page 2 and then move 2 bytes more inside the page so that you can find the actual data. Okay. So, again page number is the exact page where data is going to be available. Offset is how much you move inside that page to get to that date. Okay. Now, once you have the page number and the offset, the next job will to get the address translation. Okay. Use the page number to check the page table and the page table gives you the frame number now. Then we are going to use the frame number and the offset to calculate the actual physical address. So, this is known as address translation and the physical address is nothing but equal to the frame number multiplied by the page size plus the offset. Remember frame number will be given in the page table itself. You don't have to calculate it. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt at this point? Any doubt think about it. Okay. So, suppose I say that the page size is 100 bytes. Okay. Page size is 100 bytes. The logical address is 250 and the page table that you have says that page 2 is stored in frame 7. Please remember this you don't have to calculate it is already provided. Okay. So, the first step was to find the page number. How do you get the page number? Logical address divided by the page size which gives you to add the moment. Okay. Integer division. Then you are going to calculate the offset. It is going to be logical address more the page size which will give you 50. Okay. And then you use the page table information. So, all the data required for the formula has been received. Right. After this you just go ahead and calculate the actual address in the memory. Okay. And this is going to be the frame number which is 7 at the moment multiplied by the of this. The page size which is going to be 100. Okay. Plus the offset which is 50. So you are going to get 750 as the physical address. Is this clear everyone how the mapping is being done from the logical address. Any question at this point? Any questions if not we will move on to one numerical. Please solve this question. So, in this quiz we saw that the page size was equal to 200. Right. Right. Page size was 200 the logical address was 450 and the page table was saying that page 2 is in frame 6. Okay. So, pretty simple. First of all calculate the page number 450 divided by 200 which gives you 2. And the offset over here is going to be 450 mod 200 which gives you 50 again. This is done. After calculating this look at the page table and think simply find out the physical address. Physical address is going to be the frame number. Frame number is 6 multiplied by the page size which is 200 plus the offset which is 50. Okay. So this will give you 1250 as the physical address and that's it. Okay. So these were a couple of very simple numericals which we can do. Okay. And you can expect these kind of questions in the exam also. Now. So what do you think is happening every time I have a logical address I go to the page table and then I am referring to the memory. Okay. Don't you feel like this is going to have a lot of overhead. Yes or no. Is going to have a lot of overhead. The first step is go to the table in the memory, find the frame number and then go to the actual memory location. Okay. This means that the memory access that you have is a two step process and it is going to become slower and slower. To make this faster what we do is we maintain a very small cache memory and we name it as a translation look aside buffer. Okay. This is known as TLB or translation look aside buffer. Now how is this helping us this is helping us because the TLB is going to store the recently use page or the I can say recently use pages from the table entries that you have hard in the past. Okay. So each page number that is found in the TLB is known as a TLB hit. Okay. If it is a hit what can I do? Dretly go to the RAM and pick out the memory. Okay. Whereas if we have a TLB miss what is going to happen? CCPU has gone to TLB. It is it is a miss right now which means it is not available. We will have to load that frame from the main memory back to the TLB. Okay. So TLB is nothing but a very small cache memory which keeps a copy of recently used pages so that you don't have to refer to the RAM again and again because again it is RAM is going to be limited. Where is the actual data stored in the secondary memory and it is brought to the RAM every time. Okay. So we will discuss multiple algorithms which will help you stabilize this TLB hit and miss also. Okay. So every time you find a frame it is known as a hit. You don't find a frame it is known as a miss but clearly this is still reducing a lot of time because earlier what was a two step process is already available in the TLB so you won't have to go to the RAM. Okay. If it is a miss only in that scenario you actually go to the RAM to pick out that data. Okay. Is that clear? Any doubt as of now? Any doubt? Okay. Great. So one more thing which you might have to calculate is known as the effective access time. Effective access time is basically the main the average memory access time. The average memory access time or the effective access time is given by this formula right here. Okay. It is basically combining the hit ratio. Hit ratio is how many times I tried to find the frame and how many times I have actually found it. Okay. And then the miss ratio is similarly one minus the hit ratio. Is that clear? Any doubt at the moment? Tell me any questions at the moment? Think about it. Tell me this go over. The miss check out the formula if you have any questions let me know. No, it is them for faster access. Okay. See not technically not everything is stored in the RAM. Which is stored in the secondary memory whenever it is required you bring it back to the RAM. Okay. And even if you are going to the RAM again and again for a page which should be loaded in your computer right away. I am making two transitions or two communications which is longer. But if I maintain a cache memory which is even faster that RAM technically you can simply pick the data from the cache itself and you don't have to access the RAM up until you have that data in the cache. Any doubt over here? So see what is going to be the hit time? The time taken for the look up in the table of cache that you have plus the memory access time for picking the data from the RAM. Whereas the miss time is equal to the time taken the TLB plus the table access time. How much time did I take to pick that frame from the page table? And then go to the memory. Does that make sense? Any doubt at the point? So again think about this. I came to the CPU. I have ordered for one particular data. It is in this particular page. It belongs to this frame. I will simply go and fetch the data over here. But if it is a miss what will I have to do? I will go to TLB in TLB it is not available. Then I will have to refer to the page table which is also available in the RAM. Check where is it available in the frame and then go to that frame available in the RAM. So it is a two step process. Now think about it if I don't have the TLB over here. Every time I have to make two steps only. I will have to go to the page table. I will have to go to the RAM. And even if it is not present in the RAM, I will have to go to the second memory there. It keeps on adding the time. If you have any doubt over here, please go ahead. Just check it out if you have any questions at the time. Now depending on what information is given to you, you can use either of the formulas and calculate the numbers. Any questions? Just a moment. Let me just check for a quiz. Before the quiz, let us solve a question together. So right now, suppose I say that the TLB lookup time. TLB lookup time is 10 nanoseconds and the memory access time is going to be 100 nanoseconds and the TLB hit ratio is equal to 80%. Now tell me if the TLB has hit what will be the hit time? See it is already given over here. It is equal to the TLB lookup time which is 10 nanoseconds plus the memory access time which is 100 nanoseconds. So this gives you 110 nanoseconds. What about the mistime? mistime if I think about it is going to be 110 plus the table access time. And this you can say is going to be 100 again which comes out to be 210 nanoseconds. So you see there is a clear difference in how much time I will require if I have the TLB available with me. Now the hit ratio is 0.8 and similarly the mist ratio is going to be 1 minus 0.8 which is going to give you 0.2 and that is how you will be calculating it. So from here you can say the hit ratio is going to be 0.8 and hence the mist ratio is going to be 1 minus 0.8 which gives you 0.2. Now from this you can go ahead and calculate the effective access time and the effective access time can be given by this formula right here. So hit ratio into the hit time plus you are going to do the mist ratio into the mist time. So this gives out 0.8 into 110 plus 0.2 into 210 and this is going to be 88 plus 42 boomeys correct, 130 nanoseconds. Any doubt in this and how it is solved again important numerical please give it a check if you have any questions at this point let me know. Some important attributes which you can be asked to calculate in the exam are the hit time, the mist time, the effective time and the hit and mist ratio. These attributes can be asked. Any questions at this point? See mist time is going to be your table lookup time plus space table access time. How much time am I taking equal to the memory access time as well? Usually the table lookup time or the memory access time will be equal to the page table access time itself. If it is different it will be given to you. Any other doubt again re-itrating the page table access time is the same as memory access time. It is given differently it will be mentioned in the question itself. Please try out this question. Okay, we will go over this again it is kind of important for you all. Let us see in the question that you had the table lookup time was given it was 5 nanosecond the memory access time was given which was 18 nanosecond and the what else was given the table hit ratio was given. And you were supposed to calculate the table or the effectiveness time over here. So how do you calculate it? First of all you will calculate the hit time. Hit time as I told you is nothing but the TLB time which is 5 nanoseconds plus the memory access time which is 80 seconds or 80 nanoseconds it gives you 85 nanoseconds. If I now want to calculate the TLB miss time you are simply going to add one more memory access time which gives you 165 nanoseconds. This is done. Now after doing this you have the hit ratio already find the miss ratio. Miss ratio is going to be 1 minus 0.75 because 75 percent was given as the hit ratio. So this is going to be 0.25 over here and like this you have found all the three attributes which are important to you. After this you need to calculate the effective access time which is the hit ratio multiplied by the hit time plus the miss ratio multiplied by the miss time. And that is all. So this gives you 63.75 plus this is going to be 41.25 and hence the total effective access time is going to be 105 nanoseconds. Is this clear? Any question? Any questions? Think about it. Let us take 5 minutes, review whatever we have done and then tell me if you have any questions still this point and then we will move on to some of the quizzes and we will discuss virtual memory. As of now any questions? If this is clear we will move on to the next thing which is segmentation. Now you all know very well that one program can be divided into several logical parts each doing different things. So the paging divides memory into equal size blocks but from the programmers view a program is divided into code. It is divided into the data that is storing the stack memory it has and the heap memory is has. So this idea of partitioning the data or the program into logical parts is known as fragmentation. Is that clear? Simply dividing the problem or the dividing the program into logical parts each will be known as code segment data segments, stack segment and heap segment. Each of these segments can have different sizes. But for this class we will focus on paging more because the modern memory management depends mainly on paging based virtual memory. This is just an idea that you should know about. And paging was what fixed page sizes available in your logical memory. Any doubt at this point? We will now start with the questions. I hope you all have gone through whatever we discussed. And in the next question you have to calculate the physical address from the page size and the page table which has been given to you. You all have a whole minute. Please calculate. Let us see how this is done. You have been given the page size and you have been given the complete page table and you have been given the logical address also. Now in order to find the physical address what all data are you going to need? You are going to need the frame number. You will need the frame number and then you will need the page size plus you need the offset. So from the page table you can see that all the frames have been mentioned. First let us calculate the page number in order to get the frame number. So what is page number? Page number is equal to logical address integer division of the page size. Logical address here is 2500 and the page size is given as 1024. So as you divide you can see that you will be getting to as the page number. Remember page number will always be a whole number. If you have received something indesible decimal you are going to scale up. Now after doing this you need the offset. Offset is going to be 2500 which is the logical address minus 10448. Page gives you 452 bytes. Now from this you can calculate the page. You only have the page. Get the frame number. So the frame number is going to be one at the moment. Now you have all the data to calculate the physical address. So this is going to be the frame number one multiplied by the page size. Page size was again 1024 plus the offset which is 252. And this gives you 1476 bytes. Is this clear any question as of now? Okay. Next you have to calculate the internal fragmentation given the process size and the page size. Similar question we have done already just subtract the process size from whatever has been allocated at the moment. Go ahead solve this. I have access a new notes link please go ahead and open that because the old one got you will see that the process size was given the process size is 33 kb and the pay size is equal to 8 kb at the moment. Okay. So here see partial paging is not going to be possible. So you can see right now that if I calculate the number of pages it is going to be 33 by 8 which gives you 4.1. So can you total data in 4 pages? No you cannot. Can you have 4.1 pages? No you cannot. You will be needing 5 pages in total. Okay. Then what is the allocated memory? It is going to be 5 into 8 which will be total for tkb. So how much is the free space? You can see it is going to be 40 minus 33 the program size which gives you 7 kb. Okay. Any doubt over here? Okay. Simple calculations from whatever data we have been given. Do you want to solve more questions or shall we move on to the next topic? Do you want to have more such questions? More questions? Okay. If you press yes how will I know more topics or more questions? Yes is indefinite. Press yes if you want to have more questions. Okay. Okay. Please solve the next one. Okay. Please solve the next one. Okay. Okay. I am not going to solve this question. Okay. Now we will move on to another topic which is virtual memory. Now what do you think is virtual memory? What do you think is virtual memory? Okay. Now we have seen always the RAM is limited. Okay. And the processes that we are running can be very large. Okay. And many processes are also running at the exact same time. Okay. So is it possible that every time you can load the entire process into the memory which is the RAM? No. You cannot. Okay. So the RAM is running on the entire process. Okay. So where are the remaining pages going? Remaining pages are outside the RAM and they are brought back to the RAM whenever our process is going to need them. And this entire concept is known as a virtual memory. It is pretty much like saying that you can have lots of books. Okay. And you might not need all the books at the same time. So whatever books you need at the moment, you are going to keep it on your table. And whatever is not required for now, you will put it in the bookshelf. Now as and when the books are needed, you will bring it from the bookshelf to your desk. Okay. And that is the entire idea of virtual memory. So virtual memory is basically a memory management technique. Where the OS allows a process to run even if the complete process is not stored in the RAM. It is not present in the RAM. Is that clear? Okay. What is present? Only few pages of this are present in the RAM. Otherwise, it is all stored in the disk. Is that clear? Any doubt at the moment? Think about it and tell me any question. Okay. So now when we are talking about virtual memory, we can say that every position will have a virtual memory address also. Virtual address space and each process is going to get its own virtual address space. This may just make the process feel like I have my own private memory. Okay. And that is why if you see if I have two processes, process one and two, both feel like they are starting from the first process. So when you are starting from index zero, but are they actually starting from the index or the address zero. No, because internally, OS is mapping them to a different physical memory altogether. And this keeps our concept of previous logical address and the physical address intact, that the logical address always starts from zero. It does not know its actual location in the memory. Is that clear? Any doubt as of now? Any question? Okay. Now we have already discussed about valid and invalid address. Same thing will happen here also. We'll have a valid and invalid bit. Okay. So what happens is that when your process is running, it is saving some pages in the RAM itself. Okay. The pages saved in the RAM are given a valid bit one. The pages which are not available in the RAM rather are stored in the secondary memory, which can be then brought back whenever they are required are given valid bit zero. Okay. So from this page table, now you cannot just figure out what is the page and what is the frame. You can also check if this particular data is actually available in my RAM or not. Or will I have to go to the secondary memory to fetch for it? Is this clear? Everyone any doubt as of now? So what happens is suppose CPU is asking for page zero. So you check the page zero is the page zero present in my RAM. See the associated valid bit the valid bit over here is one. It means that yes, this page is available in the RAM itself. I can bring it for using. Okay. Whereas if I check for page one, if you check page one page one is not available in the RAM right now. And that is why it does not have a frame number also. Okay. It only has the valid bit set as zero. It means that right now I don't have my page in the RAM. Where will I go? I will go to the secondary memory, pick the data and bring it back to RAM. Now, whenever such a thing happens, it is known as page fault. Is that clear? Everyone? Okay. So this was the concept of valid and invalid bit. If a page is available in the RAM, the valid bit is set to one. In this case, I call it a page hit as well that right now I was able to find the data in my RAM itself. Otherwise the valid bit is set as zero. Whenever valid bit is set as zero, I will not find the data in the RAM. This is known as a miss page miss. Okay. And you can also call it a page fault. And whenever page fault happens, you will have to go to secondary memory and fetch the data back to the RAM. And that is the entire concept of virtual memory and the virtual address space. Is it clear? Everyone? Any doubt as of now? Any doubt? Any questions? Go ahead and ask if you have any questions at the moment. Okay. Pretty easy. Now, next, the process that happens when a page fault occurs. This process is known as demand paging. Okay. What is demand paging? Demand paging is loading a page into a memory only when it is needed. Okay. So you see over here that a program has 10 pages. All these pages are over here. But in the RAM only pages 0 to 5 have been stored. So now whenever I want zero, it is available in the RAM. It is fine. But if I see one, one is not available. So I might have to go to the secondary memory to fetch it. Okay. And this is known as demand paging again. Again, works in the exact same manner as we have discussed the valid and invalid bit. Any question at this point? Any question? Okay. So we have discussed about page fault and because of page fault demand paging happens, which is the process of loading data from the secondary memory to your RAM. Any questions at the moment? Okay. Now think about it. You are saying that bring the process or bring the data from the secondary memory to your RAM. But what if RAM does not have a free frame? What if RAM does not have a free frame? Think about it. Page fault has occurred. Okay. And RAM had a free frame. So you could simply put it in the RAM right away without any worries. But if the required page is asking to be loaded, but the RAM is full, what will you do? Think about it and tell me. This is what we are talking about. CPU ask for the page. Page is not in the RAM page fault has occurred. Always is going to bring the page into the RAM page table will be updated because I did have the frames empty. But what if this frame is not empty in the RAM? Will you be able to store anything? No. So what should we do in this case? In this case, we will remove something from the RAM and make space for the new data. Okay. And how will you do that by choosing one page which you would like to remove? Okay. Is the idea of clear everyone? Now whatever page we are removing is will be known as a victim page. Okay. And if I remove this page, I will now have space for the next new data, whichever I want to store over here. Okay. As in order to select this victim page, we have multiple algorithms, which are known as the page replacement algorithms and these are very, very important. Okay. They are four kinds. One is known as first and first out. Other one is known as optimal. Then we have least recently use and then we have second chance. However, for this particular course, we won't be going over second chance. We will only see these three techniques. Is that clear? Okay. So again, what is the thing which is happening because of a valid bit bit set as zero page fault occurred. I go to memory, I bring back the page. Now I don't have memory in the RAM also. So I remove one page from there so that I can fit in the new one. And that is what all is going to happen. Okay. And this is known as page replacement. Any doubt as of now. Okay. If you have no doubts, we'll go over and discuss all the techniques one by one. Now for the first technique that we have is known as. Fee four. Okay. And fee four is first in first out. So you see it pretty much works like a cube. Right. The page that entered the RAM first will be the victim page, which I will be removing whenever I have an extra page entering. Is that clear? So basically, I am removing the oldest page possible. Yes, I'm removing the oldest page possible. And this is one of the most simplest technique out there. It is very easy to understand also. And this will lead to few page faults. Is that clear? Everyone. Yeah. We'll move on to the next one after we discuss one numerical. Now I'll tell you how to solve it also. See in this kind of question when we have to perform a place replacement algorithm, the number of frames will be given to you. And the pages will be given to you in a sequence like you have one, two, three, one, four, two. Okay. So you will have to do what? Find the total page fault. Okay. What is a page fault that the data was not available in your app? Okay. We have to do it using fee four. Whenever the page is going to come and it is not going to be there, you will record it as a miss. If the pages going to be there, you'll record it as a hit. Okay. So let us go ahead and do it. First of all, you will make three frames. You are going to make three frames. Three frames. See, this is with a one single thing and these are the three frames. Okay. The rest I have created because I'll update and show you how it happens. So first page one has come in. Now if this is your RAM, are you able to see one over here? No, you are not able to see one. So what will happen? One will be added in the memory. How many hits have happened at the time? Zero hits have happened because one was not available. But if you talk about the miss, how many miss happened? One miss has happened. You can mark it as an abstract to show that this was a miss at the moment. Then you go to the next element, which is two. Now again, look in your memory. Do you have two available? No, two is not available. As two is not available, you'll go and add two. And see what has happened? One more miss has occurred. Okay. Next element that you have is three or the next page you have is three is three available at the moment. No, three is not available as three is not available. You added in the memory and you call this as a miss as well. Now total number of misses have been three. Okay. So as of now, you can see that this entire memory has been filled because I only had three frames and all the three frames are gone. Okay. Now check. You land on one. Tell me is one available in your RAM. Yes, one is available in your RAM. And that is why now miss will not happen. Rather one hit will happen. Okay, one hit has occurred. Okay. Please remember, as one hit has occurred, there will be no refreshing of the memory is just saying that one is already present. I don't have to load anything. Is that clear? Next, you come to four. Okay. Now you come to four. I will just copy this so that you can see the next state. Okay. Now I want four. Tell me is four available is four available. No, four is not available. So what do you need to do that you need to bring four in the memory is any new space available? No frames are only three and hence I don't have space available for four, which means now is a time to apply fee for and figure out my victim page. So now you guys tell me which will be the victim page, which was the first page that entered one entered and that is why I am going to remove one from the memory. Okay, I'm going to enter four over there. So at this moment, what will be the new state of the frames you are going to have a four. Okay. And again, was four available previously. No, it was not and that means that it was a miss and hence I will record the total miss or the page fork. Okay. Please remember these are interchangeably used words. Okay. The next value, which I now have is going to be two. Now tell me, do you have two available? Yes. Now I have to available. There is no need to refresh it. No need to change it. I can say I'm hit husband recorded. Okay. So with the help of fee for you are able to observe how to put all the data into frames and how to select the victim page in case no free frame is available. Okay. Total number of hits here are two total number of misses or page faults are here as four. Okay. Any doubts at the moment and how this algorithm worked any question. Sure. Shall we move on? Pardon? Yes. If again, you have one over here. This. Yeah. See one is not available right now. So what do I have to remove something? So out of the three. Suppose if one is entering. So out of four, two and three, which word entered first two was previously present. So what will you do in the next step? You will remove this two. Okay. You will remove this to and you will place one again. Okay. And at this moment, you can see another miss has been formed. Okay. Now what a lot of people make mistake in that they assume that, okay, one has entered again. So I should be replacing one at the moment. So not replacing one rather I should replace two and four was coming in. But if you notice that one is not a new page, which you have entered one is simply saying that, okay, one was already available. So it is a hit and you will not say that, okay, one was newly entering in the queue or newly entering in the frame. Okay. You will check from here that one was the very first thing which entered and that is why I should be removing that. Does it make sense? Okay. Do not just check the page check here also which one entered first. Okay. This will come with practice. Don't worry. So all the other quiz you will be able to understand this. Okay. Please answer. The frame numbers are given and the string is being given to you. The reference string is the pages which are coming in. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let us try this one again. How many frames you have? You have three number of frames given. Okay. First of all, you encounter seven. Seven is not there. It is going to be a miss. You come to zero. Zero is not there. It is going to be a miss. Then you enter one. One is also not there. One is going to be a miss. Okay. Now you see two. As you see two, you will check what was the first page with entered here. It is seven which entered and hence you will have to update. Seven. Okay. Now the page has been put over here. Again, this was a miss from our. The moment you encounter zero is zero available. Yes, zero is available. So you don't have to count it as a miss. It will be a hit at the moment. But is the memory refreshing? No, no memory refreshment is happening. Okay. Then you go to three over here. As you go to three, what will happen? As you go to three, what is going to happen? Zero will be replaced. Okay. Because zero was the next thing which entered and hence this is going to be your new frame. Okay. So here also I have no need to wait. Did I count the wrong number of faults? This is also a fault only. Okay. So total faults if you see are going to be five in number and how many misses. Did you, sorry, how many hits did you observe only one? Okay. So similar numericals you will get on FIFA. Okay. In FIFA, you remove the first page whichever entered the frame. Next comes the optimal one. Okay. In the optimal one, you are going to remove the page whose next use in the future is the farthest. Okay. Now this concept is not used in real life because the OS cannot know what is coming out in the future. Okay. But this is more for example, perspective here. You simply remove the page which is going to be used the farthest in the future. And this is going to give you the minimum number of page for us because if you are removing everything which is not going to occur in the near future, you are pretty much, you are setting up for multiple hits at the moment. But again, this is more of a theoretical concept. It is not used in real life. Is that clear? Okay. So just keep this in mind that use or choose the victim page whichever is farthest in the future and then answer this quiz. Okay. Okay. So let us see what happens over here. Again, I have three frames. Okay. So here you will see first you enter one. One is going to be a page fault. Then you enter two. You are going to have a page fault. Then you enter three. Three is going to be a page fault. Okay. Now again, you see one one is already available. So it is going to be a miss. Sorry. It is going to be a hit. Then again, two is available. It is going to be a hit again. And then one again is available. So you never have to update the frame. All the data is already present over there. Okay. You don't always have to remove it. And hence the number of page fault or misses are going to be how many three when you were trying to enter everything into the empty frame and how many hits are there. Three hits are also there. Okay. Next one. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So in this one, you have four frames, which means you can just check out that the first four are all different. And hence they are definitely going to be misses. So 7012 have been added. Now you come to zero zero is already present. Nothing needs to be done. And then you nothing next come to three. Okay. Now when you come to three is three available is three available. No, three is not available. And what should I do at the moment? As of now, is there anything in the future? No, nothing is in the future. You can simply go ahead and apply a fee for the moment. Okay. So you'll go and remove seven from here and this becomes three. So at the moment, how many misses or how many page faults have happened. Total five page faults have happened. Okay. But now if I change the same question and say that the frames are three and the pages are 701203 and 423. Now try to solve this and tell me the page faults. The face is right. Bumi Shreyano. So first of all, you are going to enter seven is going to be a page fault. Then you enter zero. It is going to be a page fault. And then you put one which is again going to be a page fault. Okay. Next you encounter two. Now the moment you encounter two. Which page will you be removing at the moment? If you see seven is never used again. Okay. You see seven is seven ever used again. No, it is never going to be used. And that is why you will update this with two. Okay. So again, as of now one miss has happened. Okay. Now you come to zero zero is already available. Nothing needs to be done. Okay. Next you will have three. Okay. When you are at three at the moment, what are you going to do? Which page will you be removing? You will remove one. Okay. As I will move one, why am I removing one? Because what is available? Two is available and two you see will be used. Whereas zero has just been put up already present. Okay. And if I look at one over here, it is not occurring in the future. So you will go ahead and replace it. So what will this become? Three. Okay. Next you are going to have four. Where will this four go? You see amongst all these, what are going to occur in the future? Two, three are definitely occurring in the future. As two, three are going to occur. I will be replacing zero with four. Okay. So you see right now here, how many misses have happened? Four. And then this was a miss and this was a miss. Okay. Now you come to two. Two is already available. Don't remove that. You come to three. Three is already available. Don't remove that. Okay. So in total, how many misses were there? Six. Okay. So from whatever page is available in the frame, you check in the future. Is anything available if it is available? Don't remove that. Okay. Great. Now this brings us to the very last algorithm and perhaps the one of the most important ones, which is the least recently used. Okay. And this is something that you have also studied in DSA while you were studying the link list algorithm. Right. So in least recently, you see, optimal is working good for us because it is saying that look in the future and figure out which what will not be used. Okay. But knowing future is not in our hands. So I can't use that. So an alternative that we came up with is known as LRU, which is least recently used. So I'm saying remove the page, which has not been used for the longest time in the past because it will not likely to occur in the future also. Okay. So LRU always looks at the past usage. Okay. Keeping that thing in mind. Please answer the next quiz. Okay. We are solving using LRU. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So here's what happens that I have three frames. So one, two, three, all unique have been entered. Okay. And it this is going to be a miss. Okay. Next, when you come to four, come to four and check which one was the least recently used. One was least recently used. So you will remove that. Okay. And this was also a miss. Now you come to one again. Right. So you see here that they might be some problems like this, but because our algorithm is least recently used. I'm definitely going to pick that element only. Okay. Now when I come to one, which one see this is the candidate for two, three out of this, which one was least recently used to was least recently used. So I'm going to update this with one again. And that is why this is also a miss for us. Now you see we come to two. Now two is also not available. Four, one, three, four, one, three. This is the sequence, which has been least recently used. Three and you were supposed to update that. Okay. So pretty much everything was a miss. And that is why you were having six page faults. Is that clear? Okay. So with the LRU, we are trying to predict the future by looking at the past. Okay. Try one last one and then we'll move on to the other topic. See right now we are getting such examples where it doesn't seem very different. You can get something like one, two, one, one. Okay. So if you see if I'm having a new page fault, I can see in the future back. Okay. In this case, the algorithm will change. According to FIFA, you can see that this was the one which you should be removing. According to least recently use, you should not remove one because one has occurred already. Okay. We have not seen such an example. Okay. And so another one. Okay. Okay. So one last one. See, I have three frames. All initially are different and hence all are going to be misses. Now I have four. Four is going to see that one was essentially use. It removes that. It is also a miss. Now I come over here. This is also going to be a miss and right now the algorithm is following the exact same path, which you have seen in the previous exam. Okay. Now you come to five. As I come to five, these are candidates, which one was least recently used. Four was least recently used as four will be removed and now you have five over here. Okay. And again, this is going to be a miss. You come at one. Okay. Now if I look at one, one is already present. This is a hit. I come to two. Two is present. This is a hit as well. Now I come to three. As I come to three, five, one, two, which one was the least recently used. Five. So I'm going to update that. Okay. And a page fault has occurred. Now I come to four. Four is also not available. One one was recently used. So update that this is also a fault. Okay. Now you come to five. As you see, five is also not available in this. Two was a least recently used. I have five last stage is three, four, five. And the number of misses that you have recorded is 10 in total. Okay. So in your exams, you can expect direct questions. You can also be asked the stage of the last frame. Plus the number of page for tandem misses. Is this clear? Everyone. So we have seen three algorithms. T4 was going to look at the oldest space loaded in the memory. Optimal removes the pages. Use for the in the future. Okay. And L.R.U. is going to replace the least recently used page in the past. Assuming it can predict future. Now there's a very important term known as abilities and normally. Now what happens is that we sometimes assume that if we have more number of frames, I can have fewer number of page faults because I'll have extra room for all the new pages which are coming in. Right. But in fee for sometimes increasing the frame size increases the number of faults also because every time I can see I'll have to add in extra elements which you can see in this particular example. Okay. So may I can say increasing the number of frames does not always guarantee that the page fault will be reduced. Okay. And mainly happens in fee for it does not happen in optimal and L.R.U. It is going to benefit in that case. Is that clear? Everyone. Any doubt. Any doubt. Okay. Now sometimes from the given page fault you can also be asked to calculate the page fault rate. Okay. So in case you are asked for the page fault rate. You are going to use a very simple formula. It is going to be the number of page faults which have happened. Okay. Divide by the total number of pages. Okay. And yeah, that is it. Okay. If you have this, you will get the page fault rate. Okay. Not a very important question. But sometimes you can be asked. Now I can convert it into a percentage also by multiplying with 100. Okay. Any doubt as of now. So here sometimes you might be given the data as previously here. Okay. From this you might be asked to calculate the page fault rate or you can also be given the direct values and calculate the page fault rate. Okay. Any doubt as of now in whatever we have discussed. Any questions. Okay. Now there's one more term. It is known as thrashing. Okay. A direct definition can be asked like what is thrashing. So what exactly is thrashing when you have too many page faults occurring. Okay. If they are page faults again and again. If you see this example. This one. See. Everything is a page fault only there was only one case where you found a hit. Okay. Similarly, you have this case. Everything is a miss only you could never find a hit. Okay. So such cases are known as thrashing where misses are occurring again and again. Is that clear everyone and as you all know too much of thrashing is not a very good thing. Okay. What will happen if you have too much space thrashing. First of all, the page fault rate will increase and hence you are utilizing the CPU lesser because you are taking a lot of overhead and picking data from secondary to primary memory. Okay. There's very high this activity, which is an overhead and the system overall becomes slow. That's all. Okay. Is that clear everyone. Okay. That is all that we have to discuss discuss and we are done with memory management basics. The place replacement algorithms and virtual memory. Let us have a couple of quizzes for revision and then we are done with the class. Okay. Answer this. Virtual memory allows partial program loading because whatever is required is loaded into the RAM and rest everything is simply put in the secondary memory. People at the back please don't lose your patience just three minutes away hardly. Virtual address is simply for the program credit for the program the actual RAM will only use the pages and the frames to have it. Okay. Next one what does invalid between. Invalid means that the page was not available in the RAM you will have to pick it up from the secondary memory now next one. Demand page simply says that the invalid bit was zero and now I'll have to go to the secondary memory to get the data from there. Next page fault and miss are pretty much the same thing. Next one it is about the place replacement algorithm. Okay. So I'll take the attendance now we do have a couple of more quizzes so maybe while the attendance is uploading you can try them out. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. While the pictures are uploading just ask a couple of questions if you wish to you can participate it is not mandatory. Next one. Thank you. Next one. Next one it is about Belidies anomaly. Belidies anomaly is increasing the frame size. It increases the number of page faults also this does not happen in the air you in optimal but it will happen in FIFA. The pictures are still being uploaded. Last quiz. All the students who have created a notch please come here in the front. Thank you. Thank you.