you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you I've done a coupleáng básicamente, I'll focus on light. Okay. So, cool. So, what were we discussing in the last session everyone? In the last session, we were talking about normalization as a concept. What is normalization as a concept means? So, when we were designing the database, right? We saw that there is always going to be a structured approach to prepare the final list of entities in the attributes present in those entities and what will be the final, what will be the structure, structured approach to do that. Step number one will be to understand the business operations or the business activities. Step number two will be to identify the data that each and every one of those business activities going to generate. And step number three will be to identify the business objects, then categorize the generated data into these business objects on the basis of responsibility and ownership. Right? Once that is done, then what we need to do is we need to identify what entities do I need to create for each of those categories in order to organize the data in the best possible ways. Right? But that itself is not sufficient. Why is that not sufficient? That is not sufficient because sometimes even then we might have a lot of redundancies left in the system. Right? Which is where comes the concept of normalization, which is a four step process. Right? One NF, two NF, three NF and DC NF, first normal form, second normal form, third normal form and boys, flawed normal form. Right? Now, generally in majority of the databases, you will see first normal and second normal form being widely accepted across the entire database. For the third normal form and DC NF, we generally keep it on the user to identify whether that process of normalization will be required or not. Now, what is normalization? Normalization is generally breaking bigger tables into smaller tables in order to make sure that redundancy gets reduced as much as possible. Right? Everybody can you give me a thumbs up if one NF and two NF normal forms were clear to all of you present in the session. So, the first normal form was a relation is said to be in the first normal form if every attribute contains only atomic value and repeating groups are eliminated. Meaning there are no multi valued attributes present in any given entity. Everybody can you give me a thumbs up in the first normal form, make sense to all of you. The example that we discussed was the restaurant's example where one way to store the cuisine is to prepare a list of cuisines, but that is not the right approach to go ahead. The correct approach here would be to create a new table of cuisine restaurant cuisines where we have a restaurant ID and a cuisine ID. Similarly, for orders we have the order items. Right? So, for which we create a separate table order items where you have the order ID and the menu item ID. Even the quantity and the other attributes for that particular order. Everybody can we comes up if everything for one NF was crystal clear to all of you. In the chat everyone can all of you give me a thumbs up if one NF was clear to all of you. Yes, that is great. Then we move on to discussing what the second normal form is. Second normal form requires the database first to be present in the first normal form. Right? After that the second condition is no non prime attribute depends on only part of the composite candidate key meaning no attribute which is not a part of your candidate key should be dependent on the partial primary key where what you have seen is a table like this where the only one is the first. Where the order ID in the menu item ID was our primary key for this particular table and we saw that there are a lot of attributes which depends partially on the order ID a lot of attributes that depends partially on the menu item ID and because of which what will happen is that there will be a lot of redundancy present in this table. How if for multiple order IDs the same menu item is being picked for that the menu item ID and the quantity will be repeated quantity will be different I agree menu item name will be repeated for the same menu item if it's a part of multiple orders right then the restaurant name the restaurant ID even in some cases the customer name and the customer phone number might repeat it with the same customer name. Let me take the same customer who ordered the same menu item multiple times right and because of this redundancy again we can have those three anomalies that we discussed which is delete update and create anomaly. So to avoid that what we did was we divided this into three separate tables one separate table for orders where we store only the details for that order meaning for one order we are only going to store the attribute once now here if you see the restaurant name the redundant attribute we have completely removed. From the table that is not required at all here why because again if multiple orders are placed from the same restaurant then it would not make sense to have that attribute present here similarly and again why did we do that why we did that because in this particular table right restaurant name is an attribute. So the name is an attribute that does not depends on order ID that depends on a non prime attribute which is your restaurant ID so it should not be present in this table then I talk about menu items so for menu items again we have the menu item ID name and the item present finally we have the order items table in which we only have three attributes the order ID the menu item ID and the quantity of that particular order everybody if the second normal form is crystal clear to all of you present in the session can all of you give me a thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody. That is great which brings us to the third normal form which is 3 NF or the third normal form. Now what is the third normal form? So in the second normal form what we did was in the second normal form we removed the partial dependency on the primary key or the composite primary key so if there is any attribute that is partially dependent on the primary key we have removed that. Third normal form talks about transitive dependency. So third normal form talks about transitive dependency meaning first of all for a relationship to be present in a third normal form it should be present in a second normal form 2 NF should be followed in that table. Now what means what is meant by 2 NF being followed being followed means the table is already in the first normal form meaning for the third normal form second and first normal form should have been followed by the table then only you can check the third normal form right and the third normal form says that no non prime attribute is transitive dependent on candidate key. So what it means is to say that the non prime attribute which means attributes which are not a part of your candidate key. So what it means is to say that the non prime attribute which means attributes which are not a part of your candidate keys should only depend on the candidate key it should not depend on any other attribute right. So let us take we have already used the third normal form in the second normal form as well where if you see we had restaurant name present here everybody can you give me a yes if this makes sense to all of you present in the session restaurant name present in this table where we applied the second normal form. Second normal form will only tell you to remove partial dependency meaning second normal form will only ask you to separate these tables meaning you will not remove the restaurant name from the restaurant table right but here when you will see the restaurant name being present in the order table in the order table can you tell me what will be the primary key order ID. Now order ID should give me the restaurant ID which means restaurant ID is an attribute that is dependent on the order ID can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you but when I talk about the restaurant name will that be an attribute that will be dependent on the order ID everyone. No that will be an attribute that will be dependent on the restaurant ID meaning it is transitively dependent on the order ID. So restaurant name depends on restaurant ID and restaurant ID depends on order ID. So in a way restaurant is dependent on order ID but it is not directly dependent on the restaurant it is transitively dependent on the restaurant which means it should not be present in this table. So when we have already removed that in the last discussion as well but ideally it gets removed when we talk about the third normal form everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session a thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody present here please feel free to give me a thumbs down the third normal form does not make sense to anybody present in the lecture. So, 2 NF only talks about partial dependencies. If anything is dependent partially on the candidate key, whether it is a direct or an indirect transitive dependency, we have to separate it out as separate tables. So, 2 NF will just ask us to break down the bigger table into these smaller tables, right. 3 NF is what will actually force us to remove the restaurant name, right. Now, my next question to all of you present in the session is, should a database always be in a third normal form a yes or no. Should we strictly enforce the third normal form in each and every normalization a yes or no. So, I ran generally, generally we prefer a database to be present in the third normal form, because if your database is not in the third normal form this transitive dependency will create redundancy. But in cases where you need to have a very, very, very optimal performance in the query. For example, when we are fetching the orders, let us say every single time, the time in which we fetched the order should be very fast, right. The time in which we make the database call should be very optimal. The table is very huge, right. We do not have a margin of even milliseconds. In that case, what we are going to do is we are going to leave the restaurant name here in case it is an information that we actually need in the order's table very frequently. But we have to remember that this decision is dangerous reason being, anytime that there is a change in the restaurant name, you will have to make sure that the change is done to every single record that is present in the orders table as well. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. So, generally, generally a database is designed in a way that it is present in the third normal form. But, depending on the use case, we can choose not to have a third normal form introduced on certain tables to make sure that the query performance becomes optimal. Otherwise, to fetch a restaurant name, I will have to create a joint, join with the restaurant name. If that is taking is my desire, it ends your decision, to choose not to normalize this any more. So, normalization is always a decision based on optimization of performance. How much normalization we have to do, always depends on that. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes or no? Just give me one minute, everyone. Hello. Unmoke. Hello? Sorry? I am not in touch. Okay. Before we proceed, we see NF, right? There's one small concept that I would like to cover about the key concept that we have discussed in the last session, which we missed in the last session. Otherwise, it is going to be difficult for us to understand the difference between 3 NF and BCNF, right? So, 3 NF and BCNF are very similar to each other. This is nothing but a stricter imposition of 3 NF itself, right? But before you understand 3 NF and BCNF, what you need to understand is, you need to understand the concept of. Prime versus non-prime attributes. So, what are prime attributes, everyone? Prime attributes are attributes part of any candidate key. So, in our table, the phone can everybody give me a thumbs up if you would agree that we can have multiple candidate keys present a key or no? Multiple minimal combination of keys that can help us in identifying a record uniquely. Everybody present in the session, yes or no? A thumbs up in the chart if this is making sense to all of you. Yes. But will each and every candidate be key, be called as a primary key of that table? Will each and every key be called as a primary key of that table? No primary key will be one of the chosen candidate keys that we will talk about, right? So, in this particular problem statement, we do not talk about the concept of primary key, we talk about the concept of candidate key. So, in those multiple combinations, in those multiple combinations, if any combination of a attribute is a part of that combination, that attribute will be called as a prime attribute, whereas if an attribute does not belongs to any candidate key, candidate key set of super keys in which we have a prior. Thank you. Okay. Okay. And non-prime attributes are those attributes which are not a part of any candidate key combination. Thumbs up if the difference makes sense to all of you who have presented the session, yes or no? There is one thumbs down in the person who is down, user.70 and the person who is down, user. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now, we divide the table into multiple small tins, meaning all the details of the session will become a part of the order table because these attributes, I, I, it's a session, yes? Yes. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Basically, also, If you have the call, if you have the employee ID, you have the name, you have the department name and you have the department manager. Yes? Okay. investment needs the record. So, freeability is not directlyways. If employe requirements stemmed in no adjustments just did a section on M plan, but department manager is that dependent on the employee ID in any way? Department manager is dependent on the department name and this is what is called as a trance where we have three major entities, student, professor and course. Now, it is given to you that there are some rules that are given to you in this college database which is rule number one given to you is a professor teaches only one subject, rule two that is given to you is a student can take multiple courses, but only one subject. course allotment table in which I have three attributes, I have the attribute student, I have the attribute subject or course and I have the attribute professor. So, I have given based on the rule that all of you take minutes. Thank you. So, in this particular case let us say if I take a combination of student and the course, can that give me the professor, can everybody give me a yes or this makes sense to all of you present in this session? Yes or no? Yes. So, in the same time if I take a combination of student and professor, can it give me the course every one yes or no? If I take a combination of student and professor, can it give me the course every one yes or no? Yes, it can give me the course. Here, everybody has to understand that for this particular table professor alone will not be able to identify a record from the same student students to a record need you need professor here. If personal depends, see in this particular case, the functional dependencies will be again student and subject can help me determine the professor and the professor alone can help me determine the course. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if all of the functional dependencies here makes sense to all of you present in the session? That great. Now, my question to all of you present in the session will be, can all of you take two minutes and think about will three and three minutes, will three and three minutes be able to identify a record? Will three and if ask you to compose this table into smaller tables every one yes or no? Think about it. Look at what three and if says that a non-prime attribute should transitively depend on a candidate key. Here, look at any particular combination of candidate key. In this particular case, all of the three attributes are a part of candidates. All of the attributes are your prime attributes. So, will three and if ask us to decompose this table into multiple tables yes or no? No, it will not. Great. But still, my question is, is there any redundancy that is present in this table? So, according to three and if this table is completely fine, there is required decomposing this into further tables. But talk about what DC and F6. What DC and F6. Is in BC and F if for every non-privile functional dependency X determines Y, X is a super big. So, BC and F does not look at attributes. BC and F look at the functional dependencies that are present for that particular table or the attributes present in that particular table. Now, for this particular example, if I look at all the functional dependencies that are present in this particular table, in this particular table, there are two functional dependencies that are present. Student can help you determine the course. Now, let us look at both of the functional dependencies. When I look at the first functional dependencies, student and subject, when it depends or determines X, is student comma subject a super key of the table? Is student comma subject a combination that can be used to uniquely identify a record in the table? Everybody present in the session, yes or no? Yes, it can be used. It is a part of our candidate key as well. But when I look at the second functional dependency, which is professor determines the course. My question to all of you will be, is professor assume? Sir, an attribute that can be held or that can be assumed here. Is anybody present in the session a yes or no? No. No. A combination of student and professor is, but professor alone is not a super key of the table. And that is why this table is in a violation of BCNF. And now, what we would need to do here to make sure it is not violating BCNF is to divide this into two tables. Which two table? Student and a course combination, student and a professor combination. Can everybody give me a thumbs up? If what is BCNF makes sense to all of you present in the session a yes or no? Please feel free to give me a thumbs down if BCNF is a concept, does not make sense to anybody present in the session. But now my question to all of you here will be, was this necessarily required in this table? No. Which means in certain conditions you also need to understand when do you have to stop the normalization? This table was looking good. This table would have some update anomalies or delete anomalies present, meaning in this particular table, in this particular table, which is the same as the previous table. So what kind of update anomalies can be present in this? I will give you a very simple example of an update anomaly that is present in this. Let us say the same restrictions that you are able to see here are imposed in our university as well that I use can only teach the course on DBMS. As long as the restriction is in place, it is fine. There is no issue here, meaning I use can only teach one course. Now tomorrow there is a requirement for another subject, meaning an exception is created and I have been allocated a different course. But what that means is I cannot teach DBMS anymore. Can everybody give me a yes or this makes sense to all of you? Yes. So what is done now is I have been updated to let us say teach spring boot from now on. I will no longer be teaching the database management system schools. In the separate table where we have stored that detail of which professor will teach this course, we are going to go and update the entry to spring boot. But in this table will the same be reflected? If for every record where I used is a professor, if I go and change the name of the course to spring boot, will the data remain consistent anymore? Everybody present in the session a yes or no? No, right. For a student, Anomai, if I have taught him DBMS, the entry will say Anomai DBMS and I use. But the moment I change it to spring boot, it will now say Anomai spring boot and I use but spring boot has not even happened for Anomai yet. That is scheduled for the next term, next year. So everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up. If the update anomalies that a database not present in DCNF can cause a yes or no? Yes, that is great. At the same time we might also have some delete anomalies present in this where simply if I say that let us say one particular student, again this is a hypothetical situation that I am explaining. Let us say for example even after changing the course of the student, I do not change this table, I keep the historical data as it is. Now in one semester there was a course where I only had three students, I taught DBMS only to three students and now all three of those students decides to drop out. I remove the entries from the college table, course allotment table. Will I have any record of teaching database management system present in the college database? No, right. So removing one or removing entries for one attribute are impacting the other attributes as well and which is the kind of anomalies that will be caused because of BCNF. This table not being present in the BCNF. But again the idea is we do not always need to ensure BCNF implementation. Again the idea is it will depend purely and purely on whether or not we want to do that from a business point of view. If there is a way for us to handle business logics even by avoiding BCNF we can do that. The reason being again BCNF will divide the tables further into two smaller tables. Still when will we keep on dividing tables into smaller tables? We have to put a stop at it somewhere. Now I will give you an example of BCNF in our situation as well. So in our food delivery business example, right. Let's say I have a new table which is restaurant assignments. In which what I have is I have the restaurant ID. I have the delivery zone and I have the delivery part. Now there are some rules that are imposed in this. What are the rules imposed in this? Rule 1 given to you is one restaurant operates in one delivery zone. And rule 2 is every delivery zone has assigned delivery partner. Now let's talk about the candidate key for this particular table. Can everyone tell me what will be the candidate key for this particular table? What is the candidate key for this particular table? So the candidate key in this particular table is your restaurant ID. Now we will talk about restaurant ID. Again let's talk about all the functional dependencies as well. So what are the functional dependencies present here? The functional dependencies present here is that the restaurant ID determines the delivery zone and the delivery zone determines the delivery partner. Now my question to all of you present in the session is when we look at these functional dependencies. Delivery partner is being decided by the delivery zone. But is delivery zone a part of your candidate key everyone? So in this case now what happens is in this case now what happens is because this delivery partner is not a part of your candidate key this violates your BCN. And because it violates our boys called normal form I was saying it absolutely correct. Boys called normal form will ask us to divide this into two separate tables. But before we do that let us try to understand what are the anomalies that can be caused because of the same table right now. Here in this particular case everyone if this is the way that I store this particular table let's say in one delivery zone I have 500 restaurants can I say each delivery partner will be mapped across all of those 500 restaurants here can everybody give me a yes and this makes sense to all of it. Yes, but tomorrow let's say that delivery partner goes and decides to change their delivery zone. What will I have to do can I say I will have to change the delivery partner across all of those 500 restaurants or I will have to remove this entry for all of those 500 restaurants that are part of the delivery zone everybody thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in this session. So, what is a better approach here a better approach in this particular case at least will be to divide this into two separate tables where one table continues delivery zone and delivery partner everybody thumbs up if BCNF as a concept is crystal clear to all of you thumbs down if it's not making sense to anybody present in the session. Clear to everyone that's great now this completes the theory part of our discussion on scheme in the second half of the session today what we're going to do is we're going to practice an actual case study. So, what I want all of you to do is I want all of you to open the notice board on the meeting and you would see a document present there for a Netflix business case study. What I want all of you to do is I want all of you to take 10 to 15 minutes to just try to read the case study and understand the business properly. Okay each and every one of you please open the document and try to understand the business of Netflix properly what are the activities that are going to happen on the platform. If you can also try to identify the different business objects that might be present in Netflix as a platform. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you I going to move on to the discussion on this schema that I have shared with you. Okay. So the question is, so what is the limit for the number of attributes in the table while creating the schema that should be minimum and the maximum number of columns in the table. Anybody aware of this? Anybody aware of this? So the question is that while we are creating relational database in a table what is the limit minimum and maximum number of attributes that we can put inside a table? Or is there a limit first or fourth? So the answer to that is yes, there is a limit, there is always a limit for the maximum for every single thing. For minimum the minimum absolute value of the number of attributes that are required in the table is 1. So you can create a table with just one attribute as well. For maximum limited depends on which database you are actually using, which database management system you are actually using. So mySQL typically supports 4,096 columns per table but the effective number might be lower depending on how much space each column is consuming. So this calculation is based on one column consuming a space limit of 65,535 bits but if that increases the number of columns overall might decrease. For post-bias it is 1600 for Microsoft it is 2,4 for Oracle it is 1000. But I don't think in a real environment you will ever see a table having 1000 attributes present in one particular table. That is by default not a good design. So generally you will see a split of attributes across multiple tables. Everybody comes up first to follow this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes. Now what we are going to do is we are going to look at the case study that I have shared with all of you. Did everybody go through the case study? Yes or no everyone? Yes. Okay. So in today's session what we are going to do is we are going to just try to understand the business here. Right. We are going to solve this case study in the next session. Okay. I am going to schedule one additional session for this match specifically to have a discussion on this case study and then we are going to have a lab session where you will be the one who will be working on the case study yourselves. So let's first try to read and understand this business case. Right. So streamfix is a global online streaming platform that allows people to consume entertainment content across multiple devices. That basically what Netflix does. That platform is prepared for rapid internal expansion and expects significant growth in both users and content volume over the next few years. So we have just built this software but it is expected to go very soon and the number of users and the amount of content present in the platform is going to significantly increase. Right. The backend engineering team has asked you to design the database architecture for the platform. Your task is to design the database steamer that will support the business operation described below. The system should be scalable, mental, and flexible through enough to support future product evolution. Meaning. Now when we think about schema design is a concept right. We don't just think about schema design is a concept of supporting the current requirements for a platform. We should be capable of looking into the future as well. We should be capable of understanding what features might be added in the future in this organization. What changes might happen or what additional support I might need if this sort of requirement comes and we need to design the database presently in order to be flexible enough to be able to accommodate those changes. Right. Now yes, it is possible that there might be changes that will be required by K.A.R. K.A.R. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. K.A. And it is because you have access to laptops present in the session right. Don't exploit that. So, K.A.R. K.A.R. K.A.R. K.A. K.A.R. K.A. It is acceptable as long as the instructor is not reacting to it but the moment the instructor starts reacting to this then it will cause a huge problem being people right. What is your role number buddy? 4,5,4,5,2. So the attendance for this session, the last session, the last session will be removed from your dashboard. 4,5,2 right. Now coming back to this discussion right. Let's try to understand what the usage of the platform is. The last session is eye-hitting. Let's talk about the platform usage. So people can create their account on streamflicks to access the content available in the platform. It is common for families and groups of people to share the same account. And members of the same household often prefer separate viewing experience because recommendations and viewing behavior should not interfere with one another. Meaning under one account we should have a capability of having separation present for different people in the family that are using the platform. The platform should support personalized experience for different viewers sharing the same account. Meaning personalization for users will also not be on the basis of the account but those separations that we have created for each family member or person or group of people accessing that single account. Now user access the platform from multiple devices and frequently switched devices while consuming the content. So if there will be a requirement to track the history, we would also need to track the device type from which the platform was accessed. The company also enforces restriction on simultaneous streaming depending on the subscription purchase. So depending on so again from this it is evident to me that there are different types of subscription tiers that are present on the platform. Okay. And each of those tiers the maximum number of screens allowed simultaneously will differ as well. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if the overall crux of the business makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes, now let's dive further into this. So the subscription business, the company generates revenues through paid subscription. Different subscription offering exists with variations in pricing, the viewing quality, the number of simultaneous streams in the device support. Okay. Meaning for different types of subscriptions we might have different type of device support present. We might have different number of streaming simultaneous streaming allowed and there's a difference in the viewing quality as well. Maximum viewing quality 4K or FHD or ultra HD or HD 720p depending on that. Now people have purchased subscriptions, renew subscriptions, upgrade their plan, downgrade their plan, cancel the subscription temporarily. The finance team want complete historical visibility into customer purchases and payment activity for reporting and auditing processes. Which means we are not just required to keep track of the active subscription of a user. We are also supposed to keep track of all the previous subscriptions and all the previous payments that have been made by the user. Not all payment attempts succeed. Some transactions fail, time out or get refunded later. Meaning payment status also needs to be track for every single payment that was made on the platform for auditing purposes. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes or no everything so far. Yes. The business team also wants to analyze the most popular plans, renewal, behaviors, failed transaction patterns and revenue trends across regions. Now there is a concept of regions being introduced in the program statement as well. Region wise plans, region wise pricing will also be there. Meaning for Asia the pricing will be different, for Europe the pricing will be different, for US the pricing will be different. Now let us talk about the content part. The platform hosts different form of entertainment content. Some content can be watched directly in a single sitting while the other content has released episodically over time. Certain titles continue for multiple years and periodically release new installments. Meaning series, this is basically a reference to a movie series. Meaning there can be some series that might continue for multiple years and then periodically release new installments. Installment also means that the entire season might not be released at once. It can be released, let us say this year season three of a series is being released that to weekly one episode every week. Some productions include bonus episode special releases in behind the scene content. Meaning if you go and Netflix you can see right, there are some special episodes at the end or even in cases there are some trailers being added on top of a movie or a series right. The product team expects the content structure to evolve over time and does not want future releases to require major schema changes or major schema redesign. Meaning in the future we might also have some other type of contents being supported on the platform. So we have to think this part through before we design the database properly. Then discovery and recommendations. So user discover content through various experiences such as search, recommendation, trending, category, language filter and cost or creation exploration. Meaning the users should get recommendations or discovery search on the basis of what they want. Bases of what we are recommending to them. Bases of what is trending right now. So we have to think about how trending would be displayed as well. What attributes we need to store to be able to compute the trending shows or movies at any point of time. So we need to have a category which means the shows that we have or the movies that we have any title that is present on the platform needs to have a category assigned to it. Language filters which language support is available for extremely platform or any particular content. We need to keep track of that and cast and creator exploration meaning actors and directors or producers we have to track here as well. A single title may appear under multiple categories simultaneously which means one movie or one series can be fiction comedy and horror at the same time right. Next the recommendation in relies highly on understanding viewing behavior, completion patterns, language preferences, viewing consistency, repeat watching behavior, user feedback. So these are the things that we need to track in order to create a reliable recommendation engine right. Now the platform expects recommendation systems to become increasingly sophisticated in future releases meaning we have to keep on improving the recommendation system as well. So we have to design the data vision in a way that can easily track this can help us retrieve the information easily as well. And then the last is existing engineering concerns. So the engineering team has identified several core data practices in earlier internal prototypes. Examples include storing multiple values together in formats as. So for example for one particular movie or series any title previously the database design of the approach was to store all the genres together as a single attribute, multi-valued attribute. Similarly all the cast members as a multi-valued attribute which should be avoided as much as possible. So the database itself is saying that one as NF should be followed strictly everywhere right. And then there are some other details let me go through them as well one by one. Okay. Viewing behavior right. So the platform needs to understand how the user consume the content. The user may start watching in stop midway. Which means we need to keep track of how much of a content a user has already watched. The last stop point for any particular series. Continue later from another device which means this should be seen across multiple devices. Repeatedly watch the same title. They can repeat it. Binge watch multiple episodes continuously. Consume content in different languages. Okay. Switch streaming quality depending on internal conditions. Take care. Which means we should also be able to switch the streaming quality is ourselves based on internal condition. Let's see how we tackle that. The analytics team want future reporting capability such as most watched titles. Completion percentage. Rewatch frequency. Peak viewing hours. Device user strengths. Regional viewing behavior. Engagement patterns across age groups. Why is all of this information given to you? So that when you design the database, you design the database in a way that you are able to track all of this problem. Right. Then comes personalized feature. For a user what type of personalized features should be support. Save content for later. Revisit unfinished content. You see continue watching for section present in Netflix right. Provide explicit feedback which means user should be able to provide feedback on to the platform. Okay. Explore related contents for any given content. There should be an option for related content for that particular platform. Follow favorite actors or creators. There should be an option to follow the actors or creators, which means we should have an actor or a creator profile present on our platform. Product team is also discussing future features such as personalized collections, social sharing, collaborative watch list, spoiler protected reviews, age generated recommendation, regional trends. Again, it is very clearly mentioned that the engineering team does not want the current steamer designed to block the future product ideas, meaning this all should not be a part of your database right now. But you should design the database keeping in mind that all of this is going to get added to the database. So whatever database that we're going to build should have a support of all of this. Everybody, a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session a year or no. Yes. Then regional expansion. So right now it is not present across multiple regions, but very soon the platform is preparing to launch in multiple countries, not all the content may be available in every region because of licensing restrictions, meaning country wise content filtering should also be there for each region. We should have a list of the content available for that particular region, right? Then scale expectation. So the system is expected to support millions of active users, very high conference streaming activity, continuous content growth, massive viewing history data, heavy analytical workloads, right? The back end engineering team is particularly concerned about redundancy, maintainability, scalability, future extensibility, query performance and consistency of data. What is my task? My task is to design the schema for stream fix. Your design should support all the current scalable or all the current business operations. Should support future scalability, maintainability and should be extensible for future product features. We should not add the schema or tables for the future product support. That is not required right now. That should not be a part of our tables. But our schema should be designed in a way that we support these future product features. Okay. Now what is it that we need to do? So you are first of all required to identify the important entities in the system for doing that what we will do is for each business operation, we will list down the data that the business operation is going to generate. Then we're going to look at the different business objects based on those business operations and then segregate the data and then identify how many entities or what entities do we need in order to sustain this database, right? So we are going to determine the relationship between parts of the platform. Again, how different entities are connecting with each other or interacting with each other. Identify the constraints and the dependencies, great functional dependencies needs to be defined constraints, meaning primary key, unignal, not null, all of those constraints should be present. Model the business appropriations appropriately, yes, okay. So we will design the ER diagram. So once all of this is done, we're going to create an entity relationship diagram, design the relational schema that's basically your entity relationship diagram and normalize the schema appropriately. So once the schema is created, we need to have a normalization discussion on the schema as well. How much of normalization is required for each table depending on the business requirements, right? Important design decisions and assumptions should be justified clearly whenever ambiguity exists, meaning whenever we have taken a decision for any normalization, 1 NF, 2 NF, 3 NF, DC NF, we should have justification for that. Why are you not implementing a third normal form for this table? Why are you not implementing a second normal form? Why are you not implementing a DC NF for this particular table? So explanations should be present for all of these, right? First focus on understanding how the business operates, what information the platform actually needs to store, how different operations interact with one another, which part of the system is likely to scale aggressively, which design choices may create redundancy or maintain it, the problem. The first question that I have for all of you present in the session here is whether this schema makes sense to or whether this problem statement makes sense to all of you present in the session, yes or no. If there is any statement, any part of the problem statement that is not clear to anybody, please let me know. I will be happy to explain that again, first of all. Clear to all of you? Okay. So, what I want all of you to do is, every minute then last seat can please stand up. What I want all of you to do is, I just want all of you to please take this week, take it. Whatever time you can spend out on this week, get yourself accustomed to this problem statement. Don't let this problem statement be an alien to you. Understand what are the elements? Try to create a list of you, you don't have to create the entire schema for that we are going to have a lab session. What I want all of you to do here is just be able to create a list of the entities and maybe the possible attributes that we would want to store for these entities. So, that in the next session, when we have a discussion on this schema, everyone please look this side. So, that in the next session, when we have a discussion on this schema, it is not like you don't have any clarity on what is going on in this session. Yes, we do. That we are not concerned with. What are we concerned with? How are we going to store it? The recommendation engine. We are just asked to create the data required for the recommendation engine which the team can fetch and then create any sort of recommendation model or engine for that. So how will they do that? That's not my area of concern. My area of concern is that my database should be designed in a way that they can get all the information that they need to be able to do that. Everyone please look this side. People in the end, people in the end, this side as well. Your face is not visible. The last person is sorry for that.