you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you There is no partial marking also. Please go ahead and access the dock which I have shared, the question dock and try out the first question. The first question is create a Java program to model a simple device system. You need to create an abstract class device and interface chargeable, a class phone that extends device and implements chargeable and a main class to test the entire program. Please go ahead and do that. This is a very foundational program going forward when we learn about concurrency, you will be writing a little more trickier programs where you will use multi threading. So please make sure you are able to implement the abstract classes and interfaces. Try it out. You have 10 minutes and then we will discuss this together. All the the requirements, all the details have been given in the dock itself. Okay. How many of you are able to write the code for this please, Rezyah. How many of you are able to write the abstract classes? Just two, what about the rest? Please try out the assignment which I have given you right now. It is pretty simple just create the abstract class, the interface and implement it, nothing else. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Now tell me how many of you are able to write the code. Please Rezyah. Okay. Now tell me, what is the first case you were able to? No one was able to implement a simple abstract class and interface really. Okay. Let us see how it is done. So the first of all the questions says that you need to go ahead and create an abstract class. Okay. So you go ahead create an abstract class and the class name is device. Okay. After creating this device class you have to have one attribute which is the brand name. So I write string brand. Next we will create a constructor for device and this constructor will give value to your brand variable. Okay. So this dot brand. Okay. So this is done. Now you are supposed to have a normal method over here. What is the normal method? You have to show the brand name. Okay. So why do show brand? After this you will need to simply show the brand name which is pin the brand name. So you are going to print your brand and then whatever brand you want to have which is a variable over here. Okay. Then guys please stop talking. Next you have to create an abstract method. Okay. And this abstract method will be turn on because we know that any device can turn on in different way. Okay. This was the abstract class that we had to create. Are you all at least able to write this abstract class? Yes. Great. Next we will implement or either write an interface. This interface is going to be named chargeable. Okay. Now chargeable will have only one method known as charge and will have no implementation. It does not have an implementation because this is an interface. I am just giving you what to implement. I am not telling you how to implement it. After this we need to create a child class and this class we have to name as phone. Now phone is our device which means device should be the parent and as it is a parent I am going to extend it. So I write excents device and I need to implement a capability. It is charging which is available in the chargeable interface. So write this implement chargeable. Now this is done. Okay. Now inside this what all do I need? I need to give a name to my phone but we have been asked to not give any attribute in this phone class. Where is the attribute available? It is available with my parent. So whenever I want to use the constructor of my parent to give any value to it I am going to use the super keyword. So here we come back and write phone and this phone will get the brand. Okay. I am then using the super keyword. I will send this name to my parent's constructor. So the attribute can be assigned a value. After doing this I can implement my turn on method. So why turn on can now be implemented and here I am going to say that my phone is turning on. And then this is how I have implemented the abstract method of the parent. Now we implement the method of the interface. My public wide charge and here what can I write? Phone is charging. Okay. This has been done. So my child class is also now complete. What is the next step that I have to do? I have to go to main create an object of this phone class and then call all the methods. So I go over here to main and I am going to write phone P is equal to new phone and then I will pass the brand name. So this is Apple. So where will this Apple go? It will go to the parent's constructor which means the device is constructor. So that means that when I use p.showbrand. Okay. It will show me Apple is a brand of the phone. Then p.turn on will implement the child's method saying phone is turning on and p.charge which will say phone is charging. And that is how you have implemented an interface and extended a parent class. Okay. Let us run and check for errors once. Yeah. See the brand is Apple phone is turning on and 4 is charging. It's a very basic program. You should know how to do this. Any doubts in the program? Any doubts. Okay. So say 4 extends device which means phone is a type of device. So whenever you want to give a common parent we have seen use abstract classes. Whereas whenever I want to implement a common capability we are going to use interfaces. So phone promises to provide the implementation of the charge method available in the interface. Okay. Extends tell you what it is. Implements tell you what it is going to do. Okay. Now based on this I have a couple of quizzes for you. Please go ahead and answer that just a moment. Please answer this. So phone is a type of device. Okay. Device is not a type of phone. It is the opposite. Okay. Please answer the next one. Do you remember we discussed about runable? What is runable? Tell me. Correct. Okay. When we were learning about interfaces we wrote a my runable interface. We wrote a my runable interface. It had the run function. Any class with implement that my runable interface. But I also told you that if I remove the my runable interface and just use runable instead of it. My program was still running in the exact same manner. Why was that? Please answer in the following quizzes. Okay. So, the runable interface has only one method which is run. Which means that any particular class whatever implements the runable will have the capability of running. But I am either one who is defining the runable function. Not really. So, who defines it? Answer in the next quiz. Great. Great everyone. So, runable right here is an inbuilt Java interface. You can directly reuse it. Okay. Now, coming to the processes. The whole learning process we learned about what is a program. Right. And what was a program. Tell me what was a program. Correct. Just a set of instructions nothing else. It does not have the capability of running. The moment I hit run on it, it becomes a process. Okay. Process is nothing but a running program. Right. It is a dynamic entity. Right. And can every process run whenever it wants to absolutely not. Then we saw the concept of scheduling. Right. Now, on the basis of this, we also learned that how CPU that we have is internally based of either single codes or multiple codes. And code was the exact part where your code is going to run or the process is going to run. Okay. Keeping this idea in mind, please answer the next quiz. Okay. Great, everyone. So here also we have seen that we can have multiple processes. Okay. But if I have a single code CPU, the single code CPU can run only one process at a time. And if I have P1 going in, all the other processes are waiting. But will they be waiting indefinitely absolutely not. The OS will interrupt this P1 and send it to our waiting state. And then P2 can go ahead and execute. It is switching between the different processes. Okay. Now when it is switching between the processes, it is so fast that it feels like everything is running in parallel. Well, in reality, it is not. Okay. But think about it. Whenever I have a code and I'm running a particular process. Okay. So once I can say I pre-empt this process, there will be some data which must have been updated by this process. And you are saving it somewhere. Remember we were saving it in the process control block. Similarly, when you are trying to enter a new process, you will have to load the PCB of that particular process. Okay. And there was this name given to this particular phenomenon. And we are doing right now. Please tell me what was the name. What is this thing called? And we are switching one process to another and loading data of the process which we are bringing in. Okay. Great, everyone. This process which happens right now is known as context switching. When I save the data of the process which I am pre-empting and reload the data of the new process. Which means that isn't this process like a container? Isn't this process like a container? It has a lot of things. What all can it have? It can have program code. Okay. A process will have program code. It will have different variables. Okay. It will have some kind of data. It will have some memory space. Right. It will have open files when it was working on. It will have the state of the process. Right. And it will have one more very important thing which we have not learned about till now. It will have one or more threads. So a process is like a running container. It has memory. It has resources. It has data. Okay. Open files everything. But is this process the place where actual work is done? Not really. Okay. So here we learn about the concept of threads. Thread is the smallest unit of execution and thread is where exactly the code works. Okay. So process is nothing but a container for all these threads. Okay. Now when we talked about CPU, we clearly saw that CPU was an ensemble and code was exactly where the work happened. Same analogy you can put here also. The process is a, I can say larger perspective of it and thread is where the exact work happens. So in this process container you can have multiple threads which will keep on executing the code that you have. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt as of now? Okay. Process is going to own everything. As you saw process is container and has all this data. It contains all the resources available. Whereas thread is going to simply execute. It is the worker that you have. Okay. So if I think about a clear difference, what is exactly a process? Process is a running program. Okay. And thread is the actual execution unit. What about memory? We clearly said that the process has its own memory, its own data. Okay. We have also learned how always is going to isolate every process and make sure that no other process can get the data of a single process. Okay. Whereas when it comes to thread, isn't the thread inside the process itself? If a thread is inside the process, I am going to say that it is going to share the memory of the process. Okay. It is going to share the memory of the process and think about it. When I have to allocate all completely new resources, new memory, then clearly the creation of a process will be heavy. Whereas when thread is just a part of the process, it does not require anything additional. It is going to be much lighter to create an easier task to do. Okay. And remember, process always runs in isolation. Okay. And whenever I want to have communication between two processes, we will talk about inter-process communication, which will come in the later classes. Whereas the threads are inside the process itself and that means it is much easier to share data. It is much easier to share the data. Is the difference between the two clear or any doubt in the difference? Please review this and tell me, is there any doubt by then I will share the link also. Any doubt, if not, we will move on to a couple of quizzes, sharing the live notes in the notice board. Please answer this. Okay. The actual unit of code execution is the thread. Please remember, we have now moved on to threads, process. Ram is a memory space. Thread is a working, I will show you the hypothesis example. The process we were saying is actually where the work is happening, like opening a tab. Now opening tab will also have multiple things. So how will those things work? That is what we have said. Okay. I will show you in a bit. Okay. So, see you over here. We have been discussing about how Spotify is a process. How Chrome is a process. How opening multiple tabs in Chrome is a process. But don't you feel like those processes itself are also a very heavy task. Like if I think about Spotify, a music player, it has certain things. It has a song library, it has settings, it has UI data and it has a process. Sorry, it has network. Now don't you feel like all these things also have subcategories. Okay. And the Spotify app itself has a lot of things to do. Like play, song, updating the progress bar, downloading the album image. Does everything happen following? And if it is, then how is process taking care of it? The reality is that this entire thing is a process which is having all the resources. And the threads inside that process are going to work on it. Okay. We will see an example also in quoting and you will understand how thread exactly looks like. Okay. So, one thread takes care of playing the song, one thread takes care of updating the progress bar and one thread updates the album image. And that is why the whole process comes together. Similarly, think about the Chrome. Chrome, as I say, opening multiple tabs is also a different process. So, it is sharing some memory, some resources like cash, cookies, tabs, network, settings, open files. One thread will take care of opening tabs, one thread will take care of loading the website. One will play video, one will download the file and one will take care of the UI response. Okay. That is how it is exactly happening. Does that make sense? Okay. Now, as we have seen that processes are heavier to create because every time they will have to be allotted some new memory, some new resources. So, should you be allocating new resources every time you open a tab? Not really. You might be working on the same data. If you are loading the same website again and again, do you require fresh resources? No. So, that clearly should not be an individual process of its own. Rather, it should be a sub part of the process. Well, I can say a thread is going to do that work and share everything whatever has been given to the process by the OS. Any doubt here? Any other doubt? Okay. It's like process has everything that you need to complete a task, but it itself will not do the task. It will ask the threads to do the actual work for it by taking care of the resources which the process has. Okay. Any doubt now? Any doubt? Okay. So, there are some resources which my thread is going to share or there is something which thread will own. Now, think about it and tell me, what do you think the process and thread are going to share? Okay. Great, everyone. So, up until now, whenever we were writing codes of scheduling algorithms, you saw how we were creating these processes as objects. And where do the objects get stored in the heap? Right. And the threads are inside this particular process. So, clearly they are sharing the heap memory, something which you can reference. Okay. Going forward, we will also see a very clear diagram of the process control block and see what threads share and what threads own. Okay. She's answered the next one. And then we will get started. Okay. Great, everyone. Okay. But now tell me, whenever you have created any Java program, have you ever written anything to create a thread? Have you ever used any command like thread? Have you used any keyword like thread? No. Then how are we saying that threads are going to do the work when we are never even writing the thread? So, let us see that. So, every Java program that we have always has the main function you see that. Right. So, whenever we run a Java program, the OS creates a Java process. And inside that Java process, our thread is started automatically and that thread is known as the main thread. So, what happens? You are first first storing the program in the memory. The moment you hit run by giving the command, a process is created. And then JVM starts the main thread. And this is the very first thread which is created. It is created automatically. And up until I create any new thread, all the work will be done inside this main thread only. Is that clear? And we will see a program also. It runs with the help of the main method. It is inside the Java process and we can create multiple other threads after this as well. But as of now, when we are not creating, Java is creating, you will get one thread which is the main thread. Now, you all very well that any process that we have always has a process ID. Similarly, any thread that we will have will also have a thread ID or thread name. So, the first thread started is the main thread. And then the main thread can allow we can also have worker threads. And these threads will be named as thread 0, thread 1 and whatever it is. Is this clear or any doubt over here? Any doubt? If not, we will see a small program. Okay. Okay. All the codes whatever I am writing is available in the PDF itself, you can check it out. So, as of now, see this is the main function which I have and I want to see where is this main function running. Okay. So, I see let us say current thread. Okay. Now, where is this current thread running? Let us see that. I will use the thread class and write thread dot current thread. Current thread dot get name. So, what will this line do? That it will say get the name of the thread which is running currently on my system. After doing this, I can perform any task as of now the task which I am doing is printing task. So, let us say this is task 1 is running. Then similarly, multiple other tasks can be there. All of them are printing task. Okay. And at last, you can say program completed. Let us from this. And you see, what is the current thread over here? Main. Did I create the main thread? No. Okay. And every single task which you have is always running in the main thread itself. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt at the moment? Any doubt please think about it. If you have any questions. Okay. This is a default thread which has been created. Okay. Now, once we go ahead and create multiple more threads, those will be worker threads. They are not created by default. We will have to create them. Okay. Now, keeping this thing in mind, please answer the next quiz. Okay. I was hoping a lot more correct answers but anyways. So, see, Java is going to start the main thread that you have. Okay. And now, whatever the main function is, whatever is written inside this main function is going to run inside the main thread. Okay. And as there is only one single thread, the entire program. Okay. Entire program will run sequentially. So, single threaded programs run sequentially. Okay. Which means line by line, they are going to run. Okay. Now, tell me. Java is already providing me with a main thread. Do I need to create multiple threads? Like we said that one process can have multiple threads. Do I even need it? Think about it. Do I need it? If the main thread is running our program already, do we need more threads? And if you do, tell me why. Think about it. See, one application has a lot of things to do. Okay. Like if you have one single application, I might have to take user input. I might have to download a file. I might have to show the progress bar, save some data, play some music. These are a lot of tasks. And these are something which I had mentioned. But one single application can have hundreds of such tasks which are running in the background. Okay. If there is only one single thread, definitely this thread can go and do everything. But don't you feel like heavy task like downloading will take up all the time of this thread. Right. And because I am taking too much time, my app will be unresponsive. It will be hum in the downloading state only. The UI will feel frozen. One thread is doing everything. So all the tasks will be blocked now because this slow task is blocking everything. So even though this main thread can do everything, but it will slow down the entire program because the program can be very, very large. It can have multiple subprograms inside. Okay. But if we have multiple threads, the job becomes very easy. Now user input can be taken by one thread file download taken up by another thread progress. But another thread saving data, another thread and playing music, another thread. So even if multiple things are going on in the background, your program is not going to be frozen. It will be very responsive. It keeps the UI active, keeps the file download in the background and keeps updating you about the process. Okay. And that's why we say that multiple threads help you to increase responsiveness to make sure background work is happening. And multitasking is being performed. Multiple tasks are running in the background and definitely better CPU usage is also there. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt, any doubt up till now? Yes, I will be parallel execution and it will be much more efficient. Okay. Any doubt? Now what we will do, we will see the structure of a thread class and then we will see how to create thread using the runnable interface. Okay. This is very, very essential. So first of all, you will have the thread class. Okay. Now this thread class is definitely going to implement a task. So I will have a runnable task. Now you see how runnable becomes so important over here. Okay. We'll have a runnable task and this task is what will run inside the thread. Next, we will give a name to our thread whatever we are creating. Okay. This thread class has a constructor which gives name to the task and name to the thread as well. Okay. Task is the task name. Name is the thread name. Next you see you have the start method and this start method is very, very interesting. You see this start method is having a run method as well. Okay. So this start method has a run method again. Please notice this comment. But as of now, this is new that this start method has the run method. So is start giving you any implementation? No. Start is not giving you any implementation, but it is telling you to run the process. Okay. And itself, it's a say that run my thread which I have right now. So as start calls run, run is over here and this run does the actual work. And if I am running a thread, will the thread know how to run a task? No. So you will check is the task been allotted to my current thread? If the task has been allotted, then go to the task and implement the run method of the task. Okay. So that what we are saying right now that my thread has been allocated a particular task to run. Okay. The moment I hit start, I will say now the thread will start execution and it will go say run. And run will in turn say that run the method available in my task. So that task can run however it wants to. Okay. This is what a thread class looks like. You don't have to create the thread class. It is available at the back. Okay. So we have already studied interfaces. Java gives us runnable and runnable here represents a task that thread is going to run. Okay. So now think of it as runnable is as the task and thread is the worker that is going to run the task. Okay. Let us go ahead and write a very small program to see how it is actually done. Okay. Okay. So here I create a small print task. Okay. And this print task implements runnable. Okay. Now here as it is implementing runnable I will have to give the implementation of run. And here I can say first of all it is right print task is running. Okay. Print task is running and then here I will come to main and then main say this is the main thread. So main thread has started. Okay. After starting the main thread let us get the name also. So again the same thing main is running inside and then he will write thread dot current thread dot get name. Okay. Get name you could clearly see is a function available in the class. Next would be to create an object of this task. Okay. And then I go ahead and create a third object because third was nothing but a class. So here I say new thread. Okay. So thread T1 is equal to new thread. Now I say T1 dot start which means T1 has started. And then after this I can also write that the main thread is completed. And here also I can check that print task is running inside world. Okay. It is test for errors first. Thank you. So you see main thread has started. It means like spaces also. Okay. Main thread has started and main is running inside main main has completed. Okay. Now what is happening as of now what is happening tell me tell me what is happening as of now I have written the print task. I have created an object of print task right. I have created an object of thread and then I am starting my thread also. And then I am executing but my task is not running. Why is my task not running at the moment? I want my task to run in the thread. Tell me why is my task not running at the moment? See the code tell me why do you think my task is not running? I am starting the thread but am I passing my task to the thread as of now? I am not right. So here in the thread object which I have created I am going to pass the task. Remember the thread class had two attributes right. One was a task, a enable task and one was the name of the thread right. So now when I run this you see now my print task is running. Okay. So main thread has started, main is running inside the main and main thread has completed. After which you see print task is running. Print task is running inside thread 0. Okay. Now one more question. See over here I am starting my thread over here and after that I am printing main thread has completed. So now I am going to start where in my answer is this being printed. Is it being printed after the print task? No. If I would write a sequential program what would happen? Correct. So if I would have not created a thread then what would happen? First of all I will get the answer to the main is running inside the main. Then I would get print task is running and then I would get main thread has completed. So now what is happening main function is running inside a different thread print is running inside a different thread. So both the ones are running sequentially now one after the other or I can say in powder. Okay. As of now because the program is very very small you might not see a change in the order when you keep on repeating the run. But once we write my key threaded programs you will notice how this sequence also keeps on changing. Okay. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt? Okay. So I will just quickly explain you what happens over here. Print task the line number 16 is creating an object of my task. Okay. And this task is implementing runnable. So I am technically creating a runnable task. Okay. And hence I wrote the implementation of the run function also and just shared that at which thread it is running. Then I come back and create an object of the thread making sure a new thread is being created. But now tell me when I write the new keyword and a thread has been created. Have I started the actual thread? No. Because object is nothing but in case I have basically given it some memory and the data is stored there. Did I call any function to start the thread right away? No. And that is why just writing new thread does not start running the thread. Okay. It will just create a thread nothing. Okay. So now when I write T1 dot start what will happen? Thread will actually start the execution and then print task will run inside the thread zero. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt as of now? Please go ahead and ask any questions if you have at the moment. Print task is work to be done. Thread zero which you see is like a new execution path which you have created for this task. The moment we call T1 dot start Java is going to start a new thread. And so we have two threads running at the moment. Main thread and thread zero. Is it clear everyone? Any doubt? Any doubt? Please go ahead and ask if you have any doubts. No doubts. Everything is clear. Okay. I just ask a quick quiz then. I just ask a moment. Very simple quiz. Please answer. I just ask a question. Okay. Again, runnable here is simply representing a task which you are about to run. Answer this one. I just ask a question. I just ask a question. So T1 dot start is going to start the new thread. Please remember the new keyword that you have. The new keyword is just going to create a thread. Creation and starting are two different things. Okay. Again, you can go back to the question dock which you have. And I have given a second question difference between run and start. Okay. Please go to the question dock. The second tab try out this question. The entire description has been given. Please see how to code that. Okay. Question is very simple. We are just trying to understand the difference between run and start. Okay. Your program should create a might task that implements runnable interface. You should override the run method to provide the implementation. Okay. And inside the run, just print the thread name, whatever you are running. Okay. syntax has already been given. Then create main. Inside main, you have to create the object of my task. Create a thread object. And then see the difference between run and start. This is a very common mistake that people call run directly and think our new thread has been created. Whereas run is a normal method. Start is what creates or runs a new thread. Take five minutes to complete this and then we will code it together. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Please make sure you are able to write these small programs again. They are very essential for the next few classes. If you are not able to write these programs, let me know. We can just sit together and learn how to do it. Okay. Now tell me how many of you were able to create it. How many of you were able to write the code for it? Just one. What about the others? Okay. It's pretty much very similar to what we have done already. Two more minutes and then we will solve this together. And I will show you how differently it works when I use run and when I use start. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. We will be seeing the same question. So right now you see that I have two threads in my program. Okay. I have created a thread using the new keyword started using the start function. And hence I have two different threads. Now right now if I instead of writing start, I write run. My thread object has been created. I am calling the running function. But the moment I run it, you will see both the tasks are happening. But they are both running inside the main thread itself. And see that is why you see a difference in the output also. Now first main thread starts then print task is completed. And then you write main thread completed. However, you saw when we were having a two separate thread. Main thread as completed was printing above the print task is running. Okay. So right now I can see that thread has been created but it has not been started. Similarly, if I write something like task dot run. Okay. Task dot run and then I run it. Okay. You see the print task function is being called two times. Why? Because once the thread is object is trying to call it the other time, the, this, what do you call it? The print task object is calling it. Okay. Now I make a small change and write T1 dot start and task dot run. Now what will happen? So you see the task is running inside the thread. Okay. It is running both. Threads it also may not also. Okay. So I hope the difference between the two is clear. Remember create a thread. Then start a thread and use the start function thread itself. If you write the task dot run the method of this, the task which you have which is the child that you have that is going to run. The run method of the thread class is not going to run. Please remember this. Okay. So the steps are very, very important. With that said, please answer the next quiz. Okay. Great. Same thing again. Please remember run is a normal method. Okay. No matter you call it using the object of the task or the object of thread, it will run in the exact same fashion. Only start is going to start the thread. Okay. Only start is going to start the thread. So now we saw a very clear difference between the run and start. Now the next question that we will be doing. I hope you have understood why order might change. Yes. Did you understand why the order of execution has changed? Yes or no? Okay. Now we will do one more program. Very simple. Again in the same in class coding doc, see the last tab, one process to multiple threads. As of now, what did we solve? There was one process, two threads. Okay. One being the main thread, one being the thread zero which we created. Now you are supposed to create multiple threads. Okay. So please see the document. It has different classes which you have to create. And for every single task which you create, you have to create a separate thread altogether. Okay. Again the code of the previous question is right here. So I can use this only and try to simulate it for multiple tasks. Please go ahead and try it out. You have five minutes. Please try it out. Right now we were making this one single class and one thread. Now you have to make multiple such classes which all do different tasks. And then create multiple threads to execute all these tasks which you have. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Same thing. Just have multiple classes and for multiple classes you can create threads. Okay. Like. What we are going to do right now that I will create a common parent. Okay. And for this common parent I can have multiple objects then. Okay. I'll write a constructor also. This is monitored. The first. In case you are not interested in sitting here you are free to leave. So, you have to move out. You can move out. You can move out. Okay. Okay. So here I am creating a parent class which is monitor. And to this I will give a name. Okay. And now whatever objects I create and use this as a reference type I will always have a new task being created. Okay. Next here the run method has been implemented. Okay. I don't want to change this. I can write that which thread is starting it. Okay. So you can also write that instead of this I am going to write a task name is started by. And then this thread. Okay. And here also same thing. Instead of this. Right task name is running. Okay. So what we have created we have so we can write a completed also. Let us make it even more clear. Okay. So as of now I have created a parent class which is monitor task it is implementing runable. It will get the name of the task with the constructor. And then I have the function of run. It is saying the task name is running then in which task it is running and then when it is completed it will show the task has completed. Okay. Now I will go to my main function and see that main is running inside the main thread only. Okay. And now I can create multiple threads that I want to. Okay. So here I write thread. And suppose I name it CPU thread. Okay. CPU thread equal to new thread. Okay. So a thread has been created the name of thread is CPU test. Okay. Here inside I will pass the object of the monitor task. And I am naming this monitor task as CPU task. Okay. And once this is done a thread will be created in the memory. Okay. Similarly you can create multiple other threads. I just create two more. One I am going to name it as memory thread. Okay. This is a memory task. Okay. Similarly here is a disc thread and this is disc task. Like this you can create multiple other threads. Okay. And multiple other objects of the classes. Okay. After doing this you are supposed to go ahead and start the threads. Okay. The CPU thread dot start memory thread dot start and disc thread dot start. Okay. And these threads have been started. Let us run this. And you see all the threads are now running. But now tell me are they running sequentially? Are they running sequentially? Not really. They can be run by any thread. See according to me I am creating the thread for CPU first, then memory and then the disc. But is the output exactly the same? No. The output keeps changing. Also to which thread the task is being assigned that will also keep changing. So every time I run this you will see a small difference in my order. And that is because the OS scheduler is figuring out which thread has to run first. Is that clear? Okay. See one class multiple objects each has different data. Right. Any doubt at the moment in what we have done. You see order has changed again as I have hit run different task. I'm not assigned to different thread also. Okay. And this is how you will write a multi-threaded simple program. Okay. In the future classes that we have together after exams we will write more such programs. Okay. So if there's any question please go ahead and ask. Any questions. Now you see in our system all the tasks which I have the monitor, the CPU and the memory and the disc all are starting as separate separate tasks. Does that mean that three of these are definitely running at the exact same time? Is it definite that they are running at the exact same time? Not really. Okay. Sometimes they might run at the exact same time given how the code is working. Sometimes they might work at separate separate times. Okay. This brings us the concept of parallelism and concurrency before that let us see how a program started. So our monitor task or system monitor task started and it was running in the main thread. Then I created three separate tasks CPU monitor and disc. Okay. And earlier if it did not create any of the threads all these tasks would have run in the main thread only. Okay. And like they were very heavy it would slow down the entire process. But now I have given them two separate separate threads which I have. The moment I write the object dot start I'm going to start these threads. So in the memory program for starts then thread is created. You see when the thread is created thread is not started the moment you write start that is when your exact threads are going to start. All the threads are running independently and that is why the order of the program also keeps on changing. And once all the threads are complete your program is also going to print everything and finish. And that is how your main thread has finished its execution. Is that clear everyone? So going on we will see concurrency and parallelism. Concurrency is something that we have been talking about CPU will keep switching. Earlier we learned how CPU keeps switching between the process. Now it is switching between the different different threads that we have. Everything works in the exact same manner. Okay. Earlier we were saying how CPU is allocated to a process. But now you can clearly see that CPU does allocate everything to a thread actually. Next you see parallelism in parallelism if your multiple codes are available and they are free to execute your code everything will run exactly in parallel. You can see a small example concurrency is like one person cooking three dishes. We have to play and pause play and pause. Whereas parallelism is like you have three people working on three different dishes and hence the food is cooked all together. Is that clear everyone? Okay. Perfect. So now tell me if 10 threads are partially completed. How many threads are making progress? If we have created 10 threads and 10 of those threads are partially completed. How many threads are making progress? All 10 of them are making progress. Now if I have a single code CPU, how many threads are actually running at the exact same time? Just one very good. Okay. And if I have a four code CPU. Okay. Up to four I can say up to four because they can be busy with some other task also. Okay. So this was all about concurrency and parallelism. And this mass the next topic the next topic is thread life cycle. Okay. As you remember we discussed about the process life cycle similarly we have a thread life cycle also. And thread life cycle is very very simple. Okay. The moment you write the new keyword a thread object is created but it is not started. My thread right now is in the new state. You see when you do this a new thread is created. The moment you are saying that the thread is ready to run. It is in the runable state. Okay. The moment you write start it is in the runable state. See writing start and the thread becomes runable. I am ready to execute. Then when you write the run method the run method you call the run method that is when your thread is in the running state it is currently executing. If something happens the thread can be blocked or go in the waiting state. Okay. And then go back to the runable and then if it was running and it completed its execution it can go to the terminated state. Okay. So, I will go to the general path but if some interrupt occurs I will go to this secondary path. Pretty simple yes. The new keyword make sure the thread is in the new state. The start keyword or the start function makes the thread in the runable state. Run function makes the thread running and then it terminates when the run completes. Is there any doubt here? Any doubt? Okay. I will ask a quiz then please answer that. Please answer. Please answer. You can see the infographic and then answer. You don't have to answer wrong. Okay. So, you clearly see before writing the start keyword you are in the new state. Okay. Now we will come to the or we have come to the almost end of the class and we will see the process control block and thread information. In the previous classes we said that during context switching the OS saves the state of the process. I will come to your question in a bit. Let me just go over what we are discussing right now. So, I was saying that whenever we have context switching the OS saves the state of process somewhere and where does the OS save these in process rigid information. It stores it in the process control block. So, information like the process ID, the process state, the CPU context which means the counter which I am at, which instruction am I running. What is the next instruction is going to run? Okay. All the stack pointers, CPU registers, all the memory information it needed, the IO and file information, the scheduling information it needed, all of that is stored in the PCV. So, why does PCB matter so much? Because every single process will have a PCB and once a process loads into the CPU the PCB is taken along with it. Okay. So, process has a PCB but we have said that threads do not have complete data. Rather, threads are inside the process and hence threads will share the data with the process. Okay. Now in this diagram you can see some green blocks. This green blocks indicate what is being shared amongst the thread. The pink block over here show you what is available for a process and the blue block shows you what is individual to the thread. Okay. Whenever you see this dotted lines it means I am referencing this data, I don't own this data. This dark line is ownership of data. So, you see over here what happened? That a process is referencing this process control block and it owns all the data shared by the threads and owned by the threads as well. And the threads which you have inside the process have some unique data like the program counter, the registers, the stack and the state of the current threads. And they will be sharing things like the code of data, the heap memory, the files which are open and the other resources. Okay. That is how data is being shared amongst the threads. Here we can clearly see that how heap memory is being shared amongst the threads. Okay. Is that clear everyone? Okay. Okay. Okay. Now, when you see this process control block two things might come to your mind. At first of all, a threads are not directly having the PCD. They simply share whatever the PCD has. But definitely some things have to be maintained. Okay. This cannot be shared. Whereas when we are talking about processes, no two processes were sharing the data. We have to implement something known as inter process communication and share messages when we want the process to communicate. Whereas communication between threads is very, very simple because everything is associated. Okay. Then creation of threads is also very simple because you only need to recreate this data and everything can be referenced. You have seen how you when you create the process classes, all the data is required by the process classes. But here when I create a thread, nothing is required. We can simply pass the task whatever I want to execute on. Okay. Now, is there any doubt in the PCD? How data is being shared? Okay. So someone asks all the processes get loaded into the RAM. So when threads are made, do they also get loaded in RAM before they get in the running state? So see what is happening when first of all the program is starting on the hard disk. Okay. It is stored in the hard disk. And then the program is loaded into the memory. OS creates process and the process is going to get a memory. And having code, it has data, it has heat, it has main stack, everything. And then the main thread starts running, the program creates a new thread. So where is this thread created inside the process? So a thread is not loaded essentially into a RAM like a full process, but rather it's a part of the process. Okay. Now one thing I would like to point out over here that when we were discussing CPU scheduling, we said this is the CPU. And process one entered. Okay. And process one suppose had burst time of 8 units and we were saying that it will only execute 2 units. Now think about it. If process was a single entity and 2 units of execution have passed, what in the process has completed? Right. What has completed? Okay. That is the question. Now as you think about it, this process had multiple threads which were executing inside it. Okay. So if 2 units have elapsed, what must have completed? The work of thread one must have completed. So how are you breaking the process? Basically process itself is having separate separate tasks or separate separate sub processes, which are running inside the thread. Okay. And that is what is being completed. So the thread one completes, set two completes like that. So scheduling and everything is technically happening for the thread. Right. It is getting loaded like the process but not completely because process is what has all the resources. We cannot say that we are allocating RAM to one thread at a time. Brother, we are saying we allocate it to the process and the process has threads which are going to execute and complete the task. That is how you have to replicate. Okay. But if the last thread is only one thread, this is only two. But if the thread is only two, then what is it? By play pause, the state is as of now running. It will stop and then execute. That is what is happening. Okay. So again the same thing. One single program has multiple parts. Okay. That is what the work you have to do. Does the thread know what work you are doing? It is basically supposed to do what you are asking it to do. It is not creating work of its own. Okay. Similarly, when the process is saying that now I only have one thread. Do everything. So now no matter what task the OS is having. So this process is having, the thread will do it. Similarly, if the process says now I have sub parts and I am giving it to the different thread. Then they are just doing the task. The process, the thread is not the one who decides what task it has to do. The process and the scheduler is the one that decides. If you also must have seen, I am saying that this process has separate sub task. Each of the task is being allotted to the threads that you have. Okay. When the scheduler is coming, the scheduler pick the process and then this process which thread it has picked. That is also very important. Okay. So you can again see that it is like the Russian doll thing that you open it and you get one more doll, one more doll. That is basically what the idea is that we have talked about how processes are allotted CPU. How CPU is not exactly the working unit CPU inside we have a core which is a working unit. Same thing over here also that once you allocate a process process, we have sub task. If there is one single worker which does us everything, it will be very heavy process. And if I want to create another thing, a separate task has to be created for this particular function. Okay. It is not a very good idea. So we create a worker instead for the same task which is doing to do the work for you. I think that is how it is going to work. Okay. So again, code heap global static variables for that you are going to have a separate copy. Everything else you will just refer from the process and complete it. Okay. Oh, shit. Okay. Okay. You will be like, you can come out and show how the results are. Oh, is this a minute? It is one more question I have to take. So. During the time quantum when one of the threads is executing, are they also selected on B.C.O. Or is it dependent on time? Both actually, if the thread has been not been created, how will you use it? Okay. And if the threads have been created then definitely some kind of scheduling will be involved. If scheduling is not involved then how will you know that which process is currently running? Or which thread is currently running? Or which one is the next one you will be. That is all. Okay. So coming back to PCB, process identification you all know it is a process ID name of the process. Nothing else. Then you will see a program counter over here. This shows the address of the next instruction which is going to execute. Okay. Like suppose I am at. Suppose you have four and this for loop has number of lines and then you have K and then you have else. Okay. So this program is clearly not linear depending on the loop depending on the line I will go somewhere. So the program counter is going to store the address of the next instruction which is going to execute after me. Okay. Like I can say program counter will store line 25. At this is the line I will be executing next. Okay. CPU registers are nothing but they are like temporary memory which you will have. Okay. Like have you heard of pneumonic codes anywhere? No. Okay. So in the machine language we have something like suppose I write add R1, R2. So what is happening? This is a small instruction given in the monic code. Add R1 register with R2 register. So R1 add to R register variable or register storage where the data is being stored. Now if data was always stored in the hard disk there will be a lot of communication, a lot of over and a lot of. So we have some register memories. Have you done the C programming course of bits? No. Okay. IITM. Okay. So there also you must have seen register memory. So sometimes you can make a variable register type also that decides where in the memory your value will get stored. So when I write register variable A it will make sure that whatever the value of A will go to our register. The register is a very fast memory that your computer has. Okay. So obviously you cannot store everything in the hard disk. Okay. You have to have a copy of memory somewhere so that you can easily access it. The register is where that data is stored over there. Is that clear? Okay. Then what else? Sack pointer is the current value which you are executing. That is all. Rest everything I hope you know. This is not very important for your purpose. Because this is more of a computer architecture world, how bits, words and form. That is the different. So you can store that. Stack pointer and program counter are nothing but they simply keep track of which line am I executing? And what is the next line I will be using. That's all. Okay. Anything else from here? This stack in over here is the stack memory. Basically nothing else. Okay. The stores are again the quick memory that you have. State is the running state of the process. Program counter the next information that will be done. Okay. Any other doubt? Please see if you have any other doubts. You know how stack works right? You know how stack works. So I know from that you can understand that this is a stack memory. And stack pointer is basically pointed to the top of the stack which is currently running. Any other doubt? Any other doubt please think about it. I have updated the notes also if you have any questions you can go ahead and ask. So let us quickly go over the class summary. We have learned how OS which is between task in the previous classes. And today we understood that task are actually being run inside my threads. Then a process is simply a running program. It is the actual code. It is a container actually. And inside this container we have multiple threads. Java is going to have a main method for sure. And this main method will create a main thread also. And main thread is where everything works. Then we saw how to create tasks and threads. Tests were being created by runnable and threads were being created by the third class. It is already present with the Java. Then we need to call start in order to create a new thread. How output may change because scheduler is the one which is deciding which thread is being picked. Threads are very very powerful because they are allowing multiple tasks to run at the same time. And instead of concurrency now we are actually able to implement parallelism as well. Because threads will have very lightweight sub processes. Then they can share objects inside the same process. Again making data sharing very easy and quick. And the next class you will see whatever data that my thread is sharing. What happens if multiple threads try to access the same data. And this is where we learn about the race condition. So in the next class we will move to the executor framework. We shall learn how does executor work. What is a thread pool. How to submit tasks to a thread pool. What is future and callable which are basically interfaces. And then we learn the benefits of this executor framework. So this is what we will be learning after the exams. All of this is again very important when you will have to write the multi-fedit programs. So this is what we have again re-itrating today's class is not a part of mid semesters. But it is very essential for the end semesters. That is pretty much it. I hope I have described this as well. You don't have any doubts over here. The pattern of mid sem is clear to everyone. You can practice using the practice sheet. Practice sheet is available here in the class as well. Plus the handbook which I shared earlier. Questions will be of similar type. There is no partial marking. So if you have any questions or questions, please try to implement using OOPS. Which means classes and objects don't create a race to store the data. It will get very complicated. Okay. With this we are done with the class. In case your attendance was not marked, please nudge on the dashboard. I will mark the attendance as well. All the best for your exams, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.