you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you not try? Okay, I'll show you the question again. Please check out the question dog which I have shared and go to the Merse sort tab. If you go to the Merse sort tab, you will see there is a question on implementing multi-threadic Merse sort of got them in Java. You have to do this using executor surveys, callable and future. This take 5 minutes and see if you are able to solve it. Now are you able to see what the question is asking you and how to do it. I have given you the edge cases to solve it as well. Not able to solve it? Try? Okay. Do you want to template for this? I'll share a template with you as well. People at the back, I just stop talking and I'll leave the class. Last row. Okay, I'll share the template also at the end. Please check that in a sense. See if you can find the answer. Take 2 more minutes, try to implement it. Everything has been mentioned now how many of you are able to write some code for it. At least you should be able to create the task, you should be able to create the future objects, try all of that. The logic of Merse sort will remain exactly the same. Nothing will change there. Why are you guys talking so much? Try to complete the code. If you have any questions, please let me know. Okay. So now how many of you were able to write some code for Merse sort? Were you able to create a task? Were you able to at least write future objects and give it the left and right halves? If not, we'll do it together. Okay. So you see over here, first of all, what do we need to do? We are going to, first of all, let me import all the libraries. Okay. So we'll get started. First of all, you will need to create a Merse sort task as it has been given to you. And this Merse sort task is supposed to give you back a result of a sorted array. Okay. So if you want a sorted array in return, you will need a callable to implement the task. Okay. So you will need a callable. Now what should be the type of this callable? What should be the type of this callable? Should it be in teacher type? No, it should be in teacher array type because you are saying that Merse task is basically sorting the data and giving you back the result. So what are you expecting in return? You are expecting an integer array. Okay. Now we'll give it some attributes. First of all, it will have an array. Okay. Then it will have the executor service. Okay. So that I can see Qtog service so that we can later on create a pool. So this is executor. After this, we are simply going to create a constructor. You will receive the data and then you are going to get the executor. So executor will be of this type only executor service executor. Okay. This is what you will receive. Okay. Now after creating the attributes and the constructor, we will create the call function which will actually perform the logic for Merse sort. So this will be again of return type integer array. The function is called and it throws exception. Okay. And in this, we discussed three cases. The first case was the base case. What if the array that you have received? The length of that array is less than or equal to one. In this case, what will we do? Is there a need to sort the array? Absolutely not. It is one single element. The data is already sorted. So you are simply going to return the array and that is it. In the next one, you will notice that we also discussed that if the array length now is less than equal to two, in this case, what should we do? Should we create any threads at this point? We should not because if I have only two elements in the array and I give the left part and right part to separate threads, I am basically giving single, single elements to both the thread which is the run length because then I will be creating multiple threads for every single element and I do not want that. So when I receive two elements, in that case, you can create a copy array and directly sort the copy array. Have you heard of the copy of function? Yes. So copy of function is simply going to copy data from the original array into the copy array that you are creating. So you will pass the attribute of the array itself and the length you want for the new array. I want the array to be of the same length as my original array. So I have given ARR.Lin. Now you can go ahead and simply sort this copy so I can write arrays dot sort and you are going to sort the copy done and then return copy. And this will be more efficient as compared to creating multiple threads at this point. I hope these two things are clear. We discussed this in the previous class as well. After this, you have to begin with the normal logic of your merge sort. So first thing was that you used to calculate the middle point every time. So middle is array dot length divided by 2. Now once you do this, you used to get two parts. One was the left part. Now what is the left part? Copy the same left part of the original array. So I can say instead of copying the entire thing, I will copy range. So you can use the function copy of range. So in left, I have put the copy of range starting from index 0 to mid minus 1. Remember the copy of range automatically excludes the end. So if I write now give mid, it will implement mid minus 1. In a similar scenario, I will have to take the right array also. So this is going to be the right part and this right part now should begin from mid and this will go till array dot length. I hope this is clear. Copy your function copies the entire thing copy range is going to copy the given range that you have mentioned. Start is inclusive and is exclusive. So you have now created two individual left and right halves. Why are we doing this? Because now I want to create task of these two halves. So here I will create an object of the most sort task. I have named it must only this is my sort and let's name it left task. Left task is going to be equal to the new object. So I will write more sort over here and we are going to pass two things. If you remember the constructor of most sort was expecting two attributes. The first one would be the array and here left is the array which I am going to pass. And the second attribute is going to be the executor from which the thread can be picked. In a similar fashion, you can go ahead and create right task as well. So here you see we have more sort right task and I am going to pass the right array over here. This is also done. So do you see the task has been created next would be to submit this task to the thread pool. Now for submitting I use a submit function. I also use future to wait for the object. So I am going to name it left future. Now again what should be the return type of this or not return type what should the generic for this future. This again is going to be integer array itself integer array left future. And now you will take the executor and do dot submit. Executor dot submit you have to submit the object of the task which is left task at the moment. And next you are going to create this for the right or part also. So we are going to say right future and here submit the right task. Is this clear everyone any doubt up till this point what all we have done. So after submitting I am assuming that my threads will pick up the data and perform the most sort logic. And next what will I do next what will we do tell me I have created the copies so that must sort can be performed over here. I have created the objects for the task I have submitted the task to my executor. What is the next thing you are expected to do. Sorting will happen in the future itself you are expecting a result. Have we received the result anywhere. No future simply says wait for the result to collect it. But you will need to transfer it also somewhere because the return type of your function is not future. Future is just an object. So you will need to now have the answer stored in an array right now I want to store the left half in the sorted left. And you will write left future dot get remember we used to write future dot get what was that doing waiting for future to get the return to the answer variable. So when I do sorted left is equal to left future dot get it will simply get me the result which has been received by future. Next I will go to sorted right. Unume array again and this we are supposed to get the result of right future. Right future dot get now I have the exact result of the sorted left half and sorted right half. Once I have the result of that half what will I do merge absolutely right. So we will write return merge and what am I merging right now sorted left and sorted right. Is this clear everyone any doubt up till now please remember this particular program is very important from the grandpa's perspective as well. Now once I am done over here the call function will be complete the call function is complete and then I can go ahead and write my merge function. Can you all write the merge function I hope you all can do the simple logic return type is array the merge function is receiving two things the left part and the right part. And here will go normal logic the normal logic of Mercer or rather the merge function that you used to write which means you now create three pointers I J K I pointing to the left array J pointing to right array and K pointing to the result array. Where you will be just putting all the data together is that clear everyone here you wouldn't have to write anything related to your threats because the threat thing happens when you are sorting the data merging does not require that is that clear everyone any doubt at this point I hope everyone can write complete the merge function on their own yes. After this you see as of now in the merge sort I have applied the Mercer to separate separate house but in my name have I called my Mercer anywhere no I have not even created the threat pool as of now. So, we are going to say first of all create any array I am not creating the array you can go ahead and do that after doing this what do you need you need to start your threat pool for starting threat pool what do you do call the computer service executor equal to a computer. Computer is the class dot new fixed thread pool this is what we do I am right now I say let us say I want fourth rates this is also done next I will create the Mercer mail object so Mercer I am naming it task. So, I will create new Mercer and here I submit my original array and the threat pool this is done now whenever the data will be all sorted and merged together I will put it in one future object. This is future it I am naming it future itself and I will submit the task executed or submit and what am I submitting this task which I created and next I will wait for my design in the sorted array. This is another variable that we create right future dot to get and you will get your answer over here after doing this you can print whatever the result is okay. And at the end you are supposed to shut down the executor please remember do not shut down the executor within the task because you want to shut down the executor once all the task have been submitted. So, it is a good choice to always shut down executor in the main function is that clear everyone any doubt over here I will just paste this code in that doc itself. Let me know if you have any questions at this point. I hope you all can figure out the much function the entire idea was just to show you if you see in every single program the flow is exactly the same create the cool create the task object create future submit the future in some for the future you submit the task and after that you are supposed to get the result from future and then at last suck the shutdown works. The exact same idea if you just buy a heart and this is the sequence I believe you can solve all the programs of threads is it clear any doubt at this point. I have to put it in 4 threads any number can be possible okay totally up to you how much you want to create okay if you see creation of threads is also very important thing about it if you are just having one array and you are like breaking it into 222 halfs every time okay. So it's better to have even number of threads so that once the left part of sorted it will move to right half right part of soft sorted move to another half every time only 22 threads are being created or two tasks are being created that's why you can increase or decrease according to your will. If I take it to then doesn't make much sense I'm just sorting left with one thread right with one thread okay what about the other sub arrays which I'll be creating so take 4 you can go more than 4 also totally up to you okay just don't create too many otherwise will be a lot of context switching and you might get the any that's it okay. Is it clear everyone any problem if not we will now move on to the next topic or to the actual topic of today's class shall we move on okay. Moving on what we be discussing in today's class is more about shared resource we have seen in the past how every thread is going to share a resource or some resources with the processes and other. So right which mean they all work on the same resource okay then we will talk about a term critical section which is a very very essential okay and this is where most concurrency problems are going to happen. Okay then we'll talk about a condition known as the race condition which contributes to concurrency problems then we have some irrigation how to make sure that this concurrency problem does not happen and then you see how to execute our thread say fee okay this is what we'll be discussing in today's class okay. So let us get started this was the most sought diagram if somebody had an issue understanding it you can go ahead and see this. So first we will discuss a very famous problem known as the payment problem now what happens in premium problem is that see initially you have a wallet okay and this wallet has a very very good and this wallet has 1000 rupees okay now at the same time two payments are trying to have okay payment to the normal task okay so they are two payment task right now which I am saying that as of now two separate threads are executing payment one and payment two okay payment one is being executed by thread one. Okay T1 the payment is 700 rupees for purchasing a course second is T2 this is payment to I am purchasing a book of 500 rupees now tell me should both the payment succeed no no or yes should both the payment succeed no they should not why exactly you can clearly see over here that the first payment is going to be done. So what is going to happen if you write a multi-threaded program. I have available it is not enough right and that is why it should not execute is that clear everyone yes so what is going to happen if you write a multi-threaded program. Think about it if I write a multi-threaded program what is going to happen logically you guys are right that I have checked balance balance is not sufficient and hence I should not execute what will happen if two threads are running see this idea and tell me what will happen if two threads are running independently absolutely right what the payments will be approved. If I think logically if payment to one happens payment to should not succeed and if payment to happen payment to one should not succeed but right now two threads are accessing the balance at the same time right so now imagine I have 1000 rupees first thread came in it checks the balance according to the thread you have 1000 rupees does 700 look possible yes it does then you have to do it. Then you have payment be or thread be checks balance balances 1000 and it looks possible if you see as of now I have not deducted the money but when I check the balance individually both the payments look like they it is possible to execute is that clear everyone yeah okay so the problem which you see over here is that both threads are checking the shared resource independently. The resources available and hence they can execute they do not they are not aware of each others execution so if you put two into together it looks invalid and it is actually true it is invalid but when they work independently it is going to look a valid operation okay is that clear everyone so why is the problem mainly happening it's happening because of three things first of all it's a shared resource. Anybody can access it any thread can access it second thing is that threads are going to run independently and thread execution is handled by the scheduler it is preemptive in nature also okay and this condition which you see over here is known as our race condition that I do not know right now which thread is checking my balance okay both the threads and are coming and checking my balance right now okay and that is why individually both are saying yes it is possible and this is known as the concurrency problem is that clear everyone any doubt at this point okay in the question lock go to the second that it says unsafe wallet payment okay in this unsafe wallet payment the there is the exact problem given over here you guys are supposed to try it out implemented don't create the executor pool create manual threats and try to run both of these threads and see what happens in the result okay I have given you a task also that you have to run this program multiple times and see what the output is okay will both the payments get him approved what will be the final balance what is happening and why is it happening okay and what do you think I'll include this okay just answer three questions as of now okay try it out it's pretty easy simple thread creation I'm sharing a template for all those who feel like it's too difficult to solve okay try out this template and just write the code I'm running multiple times and tell me what is your output what were you able to observe were you able to write the code for this how many of you are able to write the code for this just simple object creation create thread pass the object to thread start the thread that's all that you have to do template is also given please try it out okay so if you see over here we have a class wallet in which I have a shared resource and the shared resources the wallet okay 1000 rupees I have in the wallet okay next you see I have a pay method this pay method is where I made the actual payment and I'm deduct the amount from my balance so right now we will check that which payment has been made okay so simple print and I want to print the payment name okay and say that this payment has been approved by me okay I'm doing that just for better visuals where exactly my program is okay payment has been approved as the payment approved I can say but even before that it is to one more thing I will check first and if the balance that I have is greater than equal to the amount which the user is asking me to deduct okay so if the balance is greater than equal to the amount it means the reduction is possible and hence I am writing payment has been approved and then the balance will be updated to balance minus amount okay this is done and after this I can write that the payment has been completed okay now after this what do we need to do otherwise if this message or rather this condition is false what message do I have to print that whatever payment was that payment has failed you to in a patient or in sufficient balance okay this is failed okay where you all at least able to implement the payment or very pretty simple okay then you will go to the payment task in payment task I have three variables wallet the payment name and the amount with which I want to make the payment okay so in this constructor we will say this dot wallet is equal to wallet next this dot payment name is equal to payment name okay and at last this dot amount is equal to amount okay this is also done after this I am supposed to complete the run method run method will do nothing it will simply call the the pay method in the wallet okay remember because pay is available with the wallet itself so I am going to write wallet wallet dot pay okay and what is the payment which I want to make the payment is supposed to be payment name and the amount okay this is what we have to do okay so you see again what we are doing we are creating an object of the wallet over here initialize all the value values and in the task which I have it is a unable task so I will have a run function which is not having to turn time it is simply white so I do wallet dot pay calling the pay function of the wallet object okay and then I pass the value payment name and the amount so it goes over here and does its job okay that is what we have done as of now I will go to main here again I have created a wallet over here the object so wallet will be equal to new wallet okay and then I am going to create a thread of course payment so I will write new thread okay you can do this using executors service also but as of now I don't need anything much I am just using this so new payment will again get to attributes one is wallet itself next is the payment name right now payment name is course according to me and the amount which I want to pay is 700 okay similarly I will make the book payment also okay so thread book payment will be new thread thread will be capital T okay and doing this I am making another payment okay of book okay and the amount right now is 500 this is what we have done after creation of threads you are supposed to start the thread so course payment is dot start same book payment dot start okay this is what you are supposed to do and there was one more function which I haven't taught you if you remember when I am using executors service I am using future because I want the main thread to wait for the other thread to complete its job and come back to me but if you remember when we were creating manual threads we did not discuss anything like that and that's why sometimes main was ending first sometimes the other threads were ending first so at this moment I am going to say that course payment dot join dot join works pretty much in the same manner as future does join says that main thread should not stop execution up until all the threads are done or the current thread is done so course payment dot join book payment dot join so now my main thread will wait for these two to complete okay and then at last I can print the final balance okay and here we will be printing final balance okay plus the wallet dot balance please remember balance cannot be accessed directly it is the attribute of my wallet class were you all able to write this code any problem up till now whatever we have done I will just run and check once to see if there are any things in text issues yeah so you see what happened the book payment got approved course payment got approved course completed book payment completed and what is the result over here what is the final balance minus 200 that that that means that I was able to execute both the threads independently both initially checked that my balance was 1000 they have updated and approved the transaction and that's why my final balances minus 200 now tell me should this be possible absolutely not okay and that is the major problem the which we will be discussing in today's class any doubts at this point now if you try it out and run this program multiple times you will get multiple different outputs depending on which thread has executed first okay so as if now I'm not getting different outputs you can try on your compilers and you might get different outputs okay is that clear every time I want to get out is that clear everyone any doubt as of now any question okay I'll add this code as well to your dog just a second okay so this was the payment problem I'm sorry I'm not able to launch any quizzes for some reason I don't know why the portal is not responding towards the end of the class we might have some quizzes okay so the first thing that you see over here is that I'm mentioning the word shared resource so what is exactly shared resource shared resources any data or any object which is being accessed by multiple threads in our example the shared resource was the wallet we wrote class wallet into balance is equal to 1000 now if the two threads are trying to access the same object of the object of wallet the balance variable will be shared amongst the two okay does that mean sharing is wrong no sharing is not wrong sharing is in fact very efficient and because of sharing only I'm able to create lightweight processes right now threads will always share data in order to execute properly okay now when does the problem start the problem start when this balance is not access with coordination amongst the two threads is that clear now think about some other shared resources when you want to implement a bank account balance will be a shared resource now this shared resource might create problems similarly if you have a movie booking up the available seats can be a shared resource when you are shopping on anything shopping on the website the product stock is going to be a shared resource okay because multiple people can go ahead and make the purchase at the same time okay similarly all these are examples of shared resources okay clearly see that having shared resource is not bad we have to handle it carefully next is critical section now what exactly is critical section critical section is not I can say a concept rather I can say it is not a keyword sorry it's a concept okay now what happens over here that I can write any amount of code I want to is all the code critical to me no critical section is the part of the code where data is being shared data is being accessed or modified so right now if you remember the payment method the payment method was accessing the balance okay then based on the balance I was approving the request and then updating the shared resource and this makes a part of the critical section okay again we are reading a shared resource we are checking if the payment is possible or not and we are updating the shared resource and this makes this part of code a critical section okay any part of code where data is being modified or accessed is that clear now think about it if two separate threads enter this definitely they may be issues right is that clear okay the results are bound to be incorrect in that scenario because this part of code is very very sensitive and in fact any part of code which is sharing any shared or which is accessing any shared data is going to be essential is that clear everyone so we have just seen how the code looks like without synchronization okay so we will move on to the next thing this is what happened in our code okay why this is wrong I hope it is this clear why it happened I hope that was clear also because both threads were reading the balance has thousand Tony okay and this condition that you see over here is known as the race condition race condition happens when multiple threads try to access the shared data and the final result depends on the timing or the order of the third execution now tell me whenever you are running a program do you want your program to be time dependent all right you don't want it to be situation dependent you always wanted to work no matter what the order of threads was okay if your output is depending on threads is that the correct program no okay so in the wallet example what happens the course payment has check the balance the book payment has check the balance so they have check the balance at the same time and based on this old balance information that they have they are going to make decisions now okay but the final the final result is going to depend on which thread executed first okay so if you see over here if the course payment executes first thousand minus 700 you will get 300 as balance if the book payment executes first thousand minus 500 would happen the balance would be 500 again so you see based on the timing and the order of threads the result is changing and this is the race condition okay and race condition is extremely dangerous because it will lead to incorrect results okay and right now if you see I'm just depending on timing for my result to be correct any issues at this point any issues tell me any questions okay yes it can okay any kind of output is possible it is basically why does the timing change because of preemption right so now think about it there are multiple scenarios what can happen suppose T1 was executing okay it reads data okay then it has been preempted okay then T2 executes and then it reads data then it has been preempted this is the first scenario okay what can be a second scenario that first of all it T2 reads then T1 reads right so in these cases you are passing both the data because or you are saying you are passing both the transactions because both of them is true now when preemption does not happen immediately suppose your operation was very small in that case preemption will not happen right in that T1 will execute completely if T1 executes completely then T2 will not be able to form the transaction that will be failed if T2 executes and does not preempt then you are going to have another answer okay see that is what I mean by saying that depending on the timing you can get different different results which should not be the case you should always receive either this or this correct not all of the food that is the entire concept okay so question being why is the timing changing okay timing is changing because of preemption we just saw a very quick example that the OS scheduler can pause a running thread before it finishes and give the CPU to another thread and this is a very normal behavior there is nothing bad about it right this is why we were able to perform multitasking right this is how I reduce the average wait time also okay it is becoming dangerous only when it is paused inside the critical section it is pause when you are actually making these updates over here when the preemption happens at this point this is where you get problems is that clear everyone any doubt at this point okay let us see this what is happening at the moment that course came checked balance and then it was preempted then book payment came read the balance it was preempted so both the threads have an old information that it is 1000 rupees in the balance but what could have happened in the final you will the result will be inconsistent okay now think about it when I am doing balance is equal to balance minus amount is this an atomic operation or a non atomic operation for that matter tell me what is an atomic operation and what is a non atomic operation tell me what is atomic operation any operation that happens in one complete unbreakable step like suppose you are printing okay or you just wrote in a is equal to 5 can you break this into anything not really but if you look at this particular statement is this an atomic operation is this atomic no it is not atomic why is it not atomic correct three things are happening first of all you read how much balance is there okay then you are going to subtract the amount from the balance and then you are going to update so you see that if there are three steps instead of one single step my thread can be preempted anywhere is that clear everyone okay so this brings us to non atomic operations and atomic operations so atomic operation is one simple unbreakable step even if you are preempting at this point there are no worries but if I have no atomic operation I can have different different steps involved in that operation so even when it looks like there was one simple data present over there I would actually have to do it with multiple steps and I can be moved out of my schedule of my CPU at any point of time with the help of the the help of the next thing comes think about the count plus plus operation is count plus plus in atomic operation no again it is not it reads count updates count by adding one it is not atomic now suppose there are two threads okay they are two threads and they are trying to implement count plus plus on this count okay so thread a comes reads five and increments it okay now thread five comes it sorry thread comes that's also sees that the value is five it updates it now think about it technically thread B should have read six because that was the updated value but what did it read it read five only okay thread a read five updated one to it made the count as six then thread B came it had all information of the value five and now when it is updating it you see the data might not be written and this is known as lost update okay when multiple threads are accessing shared resource because they are doing it at the same time they might either write the same value which is incorrect or one of the updates can be overwritten by the other thread is that clear any doubt at this moment okay so when this problem happens that the update of one thread is overwritten by the other one is it is known as the lost update okay we will see a real life example of this lost update in one simple question okay so you see over here we are having a value value initially is zero okay there is one thread known as other thread it adds one to the count dot value every single time if you see count dot value have written it means that this is a shared resource I'm adding one a thousand number of times or ten thousand number of times then there is a subtractor thread which is doing minus one ten thousand number of times so if I add a ten thousand times one subtract ten thousand times one what should be the final answer zero only no matter in what sequence I'm doing it it should be zero only so here the preemptive thing does not work you can think that one time the thread came updated value one time the thread came and it can come in any sequence and the result should remain zero only does not matter in which sequence I have executed but because of lost update what will happen see this is what we are expecting but because of lost update you will see that you can get any different value sometimes you might get zero sometimes you might get hundred three sometimes you might get minus 87 and it all depends on the thread timing again do we want this to happen no we don't want this to happen okay so let us do one thing again go to the question dog okay in the question dog go to the added subtractor okay go to adder subtractor and try to solve that question okay pretty easy as we have done earlier just create threads create two task one task for adder one task for subtractor okay and see what happens there sharing a template in the same tab you you how many of you are able to write the code for this please raise your hand how many of you are able to write this code the adder subtractor problem which I have shared and it is also given all these steps have been given it will work in the exact same manner as the wallet problem did there is no difference in it if it is not giving you different values for a loop of 10,000 you can run a loop for larger values okay done everyone okay so this is what you must have received class count has a shared variable value equal to 0 then we have an added task which implement runable it gets the count okay adder count is supposed to be this dot count is equal to count okay and now the run function is supposed to run 10,000 times so I can say I is equal to 1 I less than equal to 10,000 I plus plus and every time what am I supposed to do count dot value plus plus okay similarly I will go to the subtractor also do the exact same job here as well this dot count will be the count and here we are going to subtract 1,000,000 number of times so count dot value minus minus I hope you all were able to do at least this then we come to main in main I have to create the adder thread so first of all create the object also so new count okay and then in the adder thread you will create the new thread that you have and in the new thread you will call the or it will create the object of adder and adder will receive the count object okay this is done same thing for subtractor as well this subtractor thread and you will call subtractor okay this is also done now once you have created both the threads you will start them so you will write adder thread dot start similarly subtractor thread dot start and then you will go ahead and join the two as well okay this is join okay see it is again the exact same thing for my be followed for the previous code okay join and at last print the final value this is the final value and final value is available in count dot value okay I hope this is clear everyone any doubt you are all able to implement this let us just do a sandy shirt see any errors are there or not okay so you see what is the final value to 110 we shouldn't have and I am pretty sure all of you would have received a different value than mine so every time you run it you get different different output okay so now you clearly see that sometimes I get zero sometimes I get some random value and the reason is always going to be the same okay and this problem is what we are discussing it is also known as the synchronization problem okay now what is the need for synchronization we need to assure that the truth read or the multiple threats which share the critical section or work in the critical section update the value in a cleaner way with coordination so that these problems do not happen okay because as of now you see a lot of problems are being created okay so all these problems usually have a couple of things in common they will have multiple threats and then we will have a critical section where the share resource is being updated non atomic operations are being performed okay preemption is going to be possible because the operations are non atomic in nature at any point they can be preempted and then obviously the output is depending on the timing okay this will always figure out that this problem that we have is a sink problem and we will have to find a solution to it okay so what are the properties of a good solution over here first of all make sure that your solution is mutually exclusive okay now what does mutual exclusion mean it means that only one thread can enter the protected area at single time so suppose if the course payment has entered the critical section then the book payment is supposed to wait it cannot enter the critical section unless it is a single section until the course payment is complete please notice how we are saying that only when it is entering the critical section the others will be waiting otherwise the preemption is completely possible second is maintaining progress of all the other processes or threats now progress means the critical section should not stay empty while all the threads are waiting if the payment area over here is free then any of the thread can be assigned the critical section and it can execute okay second or the third thing is that it should have bounded waiting it means you have timed waiting eventually every single thread will get a chance and this is to prevent starvation so suppose course payment is happening till the exit only I'm supposed to wait and then the book payment is going to start it will not keep on waiting indefinitely and lastly we have busy waiting now all these three cried areas we should have in our algorithm okay what we should not have is busy waiting busy waiting means that my processor is busy without doing any useful task now think about it if a thread keeps on checking whether it can enter the critical section or not okay is it doing any worthy task no okay it is simply roaming around the critical section checking can I enter can I enter it is running in a loop but any actual work is happening at the point no if no actual work is happening I am so stuck in the loop keep checking if I can enter the critical section this is known as busy waiting busy without doing any useful task I am simply busy waiting for my turn is that clear everyone okay so a classical example of this whatever quizzes we have mentioned either we'll have it at the end or maybe in the next class because I'm not able to do it so suppose in here I write a thing that logged okay locked is a simple variable initially it is zero okay now I say that while logged okay while logged something should happen now don't feel like the moment this logged becomes one and I have two threads suppose thread one has logged it T2 is basically stuck in this loop every time checking if it is logged or not logged or not okay so writing these kind of loops is not a very good idea so either we are going to use a very simple approach and that is known as one keyword is there in Java especially okay which is known as synchronized okay synchronized is going to be like a lock that you put and this lock is automatic it is available with every single Java object that you create okay so this is especially for Java people in case you are coding in CPP or 5th turn please check what is the key what is the relevant alternative for this one okay so this keyword that you have available it is automatically there with every single object which you have ever created but as of now because we were writing simple programs we have not used it and that is all okay so therefore you write the pay function like wide pay this is what you wrote if you simply write synchronized over here this means that now this function is thread safe and that said that all that you have to do is that clear everyone any doubt at this point okay so this actually known as the mutex lock okay now what does a mutex lock do mutex lock say I am out locking mechanism and whenever you put it in any function or any critical section I will make sure that I have mutual exclusion it means whichever thread is going to possess the lock can only enter the critical section okay now think of this mutex lock like a key to our own so basically who so ever has the key can enter the room while the other threads are going to wait outside it can do any update whatever is possible and then after the update it will return the key to the next thread now again everything here is going to be automatic you don't have to worry about when to open lock when to end lock okay so here we are calling this wallet update room as the critical section and the key which we have seen is the actual mutex lock and the threads are going to acquire the lock okay any problem over here how to put the lock release the lock is then automatically for now okay please go over this and tell me if you have any doubts or questions okay so I'll give you a quick example of what happens over here so suppose we write synchronized wide pay okay now this wide pay whatever I write inside this this entire thing I am saying is a critical section okay remember where is this function this function must be inside a class which means every single object which I create will have this particular function and this function itself is synchronized it means this is an automatic lock human mechanism it is an internal lock okay now when T1 and T2 are there okay suppose T1 starts executing the pay function then automatically T2 is put into a waiting state and it is not waiting or checking every time it is simply waiting not doing any other task if you remember in the previous one we wrote a loop while and whenever you have while your thread will be stuck inside the loop so I am not doing that I am simply saying that as soon as a thread one completes my pay method it will come out and now you can enter my pay method is that here so up until T1 exits T2 is going to wait the moment T1 exits T2 can start the job is that here everyone okay any question at this point now think about one more thing whenever you are writing a function will the entire content be a critical section in a function right correct in a function you can do multiple separate tasks so sometimes you might want to make the entire functions synchronized and sometimes you might want to make some pieces of code synchronized in that case we will use the sinking block okay so this we have discussed already so see over here if I recognize wide method name this entire content inside the function automatically becomes critical section over here and the synchronized block means I don't want to make this entire method critical but I can write something like synchronized this and inside this this I can write the critical section now any thread can enter method name but only one thread can enter this block and inside this block I can make any update whatever I want to is this clear everyone any doubt over here please go over this and tell me if you have any questions any questions anyone just go over quickly and then we will try to solve the previous two problems using synchronized keyword okay whether to use us in nice block whether to use function it is totally up to you how you want to implement your code so now can you all go ahead and try to fix the payment problem with synchronized if you go to the dock and go to the unsafe wallet payment tab we have the code over there okay you have the code simply take that code and see from whatever you have learnt will you be able to make it thread safe or will you be able to make it synchronized try it out go to second tab just check this code and see with any change are you able to make it synchronized I already told you how to use the synchronized keyword try out the program and see if you are able to make it thread safe now how many of you are able to do it? how many of you were able to do it? I am hoping all of you were able to solve this because all that you need to do if I just go to the payment one copy the exact same code see I have copied the exact same code no changes there right now if I am running it I am getting minus 200 balance okay all what I have to do right now I see that what is my critical section right now where is the importance of happening it is happening over here everything is critical at the moment I am reading balance I am updating balance right so this entire pay method I can say should be synchronized if I just try to synchronize and run it now you will see everything is going to be okay see now the course is approved course completed book payment has failed and the final balance is 300 now no matter how many times you run you will get the right output but when either course is going to execute or the book is going to execute but either one of the payment is definitely going to fail and that is the correct output clear everyone any question over here please go ahead and ask if you have any doubts at this point okay so basically what happens is that this course payment method was able to enter this pay function okay and as it has entered this this book payment has been paused okay and up until course payment is complete book payment is not able to do the job and hence it is waiting the moment the course is completed it will update the balance balance is 300 now when the this book payment comes in it sees 300 is greater than equal to 500 is going to be false and hence the book payment will be failed and that is the entire thing which has happened is that clear everyone any issue as of now okay okay great then can you similarly try to solve the order subtractor problem as well try to solve the order subtractor problem I am giving you the code of without organization just go and try to make it synced see what can you do you you you you you you you you you you you oh when you have you when you feel like all the data which you have in a particular method is a part of a critical section go ahead make the entire method synchronized which means put the mutex block but if you feel like that there are some very small operations which are a part of critical section in that case you can use synchronized blocks okay you can see a clear difference difference between the two how they are written. They work in the exact same manner is just that whenever your functions can have multiple things to do and you make the entire functions synchronized then your overall program will get slower because then every thread is running sequentially. Unconcurrency never happens and hence your program is slowed down. So choose wisely what you want to do. Generally thread blocks or the synchronized blocks will be better in case of updating small values like this. So in the address of practical problem instead of making the entire method as synchronized try to make a block synchronized only. I hope that's clear. Also one very important step that as I have mentioned multiple times that one object has one lock which means that if you use two object if you use another object and then you have one lock over here and then you are trying to implement the same problem using two threads and at this point you have two different different objects. Will you be able to implement the synchronization over here? No you will not be able to because this is an independent lock this is an independent lock. So this is not possible you cannot have two different objects and then try to implement this logic. It will only work when the locks are being shared which means you have only one single object. So in today's class we have learned that threads are very useful but they have a problem when they are sharing the same data and when they try to share and update the same data wrong result you can see like double approvals and lost updates and all of this is happening because OS is preempting your threads and remember whenever we have multi-threaded programs we will always need synchronization so that your data is thread state or whatever you are implementing or whatever you are updating is actually being saved and not being lost in the transaction. Then to protect the critical section what do I need? I will need that I should allow mutual exclusion. I should allow all the processes to have a progress as well and you should have a definite bounded waiting time. If these three things are present you should be able to apply a good synchronization algorithm. To do all of this we have a mutex lock. Mutax locks is very simple get the key, enter the critical section and then release the key. And C++ I guess you use locks for doing the same thing but that is a little more tricky than using the keyword over here. So again one object will have one lock it means that whenever you create multiple threads try to use the same object. If you have different objects then there is no protection between the data and that is it that is how you will be implementing synchronization. Is this clear everyone? Any doubt as of now? Please go over the notes and tell me if you have any questions at this point. I have added one more question for you all which is called movie tickets. This also is pretty similar. The movie theater has a thousand tickets let's say. And multiple booking agents are trying to book the tickets simultaneously. And these are threads. Now each booking agent wants to book one ticket at a time. Now without the transition two agents may sell the same ticket. So you want to avoid it. In this case you have to use a synchronized block to ensure that the ticket booking is straight C. This is a question which I am giving you. I will also share the template with you all. Please remember these kinds of questions are very important for your exams as well. Okay. I am sharing a small template so that you can go ahead and try it out. In the next class that we have together it is concurrency for. I am there will be discussing the mutex lock in more detail and you will see a lot more examples also. Okay. So we can move on to CMA force and then see how civilization is possible through CMA force also. So CMA force are very essential for any kind of multi-thread programs. Okay. I will just try to launch a couple of quizzes and see if I am able to do that. Okay. These are the next quiz. Okay. Okay. Launching another one. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Great. So remember the problem is happening because all the operations which you are doing are not at all. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.