you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you so the first one being The execution is basically the sequence in which the different keywords written in a SQL query are processed and it does not depends on where those keywords are placed. Can everybody give me a thumbs up? First of all, if this makes sense to all of you present in the session, there is a fixed logical order that is defined which is followed in SQL. That is the order that is being used in SQL to execute the queries. What is that logical order? So whenever you write a SQL query, the first keyword to be executed is the from or the join keyword. So the first thing that the database does is it identifies or forms the table from which you need to get the attributes, tables, you need to group table on which you need to perform those aggregate functions. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? So even though you would have written select this from this, this from this, do this, do that. That is not what the database is going to execute first. The database is going to first fetch the list of the tables that are present in the query. If there is a single table, that is it. Otherwise, it is going to first perform the joins and then get the data. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you? Super. The second keyword that the SQL executes is the way our clause. So now whatever tables you have selected, whether it's a cross join of multiple tables, whether it is a Cartesian product of multiple tables or just one single table, what the SQL will do after that is filter that data based on the conditions that you have defined. That what is the final data that should exist that I should process the remaining keywords remaining query on. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes? Super. Then the third step that the SQL computes is the group by clause. Okay? Meaning, once the data is filtered, is there a requirement to categorize that data into different buckets and calculate any aggregates also those buckets? That's the third operation that is executed by SQL. Now the fourth operation that is executed by SQL is the having clause, which means whether these groups that you have created from the original filter to data needs to be filtered or not. So initial sequences of the initial commands that executes are all about first of all finalizing what data it is that you're going to run the query on. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? That's great. Now once the data is sorted right, then we go to the select clause. So select clause is where the data is determined, which columns, which expression, which aggregate calculations needs to be displayed in the final result. And this is the step where aggregation happens. This is the step where aggregation happens. First groups are created, groups are filtered, then you look at what data you want to select from those groups or those individuals attributes. Now once the data is selected, that is when the distinct keyword works. So from the selected data if you only want to have a look at the distinct elements, everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Now what is the final data that is in the result set? It's where the order by clause is executed. So once the entire data is finalized, this when just before displaying the data is where the data is sorted on the basis of the attributes that you're defined in the table. Everybody a thumbs up if this also makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes. And everyone the last and the eight one is the limit, which means once everything is done, once the final table is ready. And the end the limit clause is executed to decide if you want to display the entire result set or you only want to display some limited entries from the result set. Everybody a thumbs up if the order of execution of the SQL keywords makes sense to all of you present in the session. And this is what you should keep in mind while writing any SQL query. This is what will help you in writing SQL queries in the correct sequential order. Super. Now people if this makes sense to all of you present in the session, let me open the database. Now, there is one more quick concept that I would like to discuss with all of you before we start following questions, which is the concept of self-joint. Now self-joint is not a new type of joint is what you need to understand in the session. When I talk about self-joint, right? Self-joint refers to joining the table with itself. Now the question that you need to understand is why will there be a requirement to join a table with itself? Right? The next question is happens when one attribute of a table is actually related to the other attribute of the same table. For example, if I have the employees table, okay? In employees table, I have the employee ID. I have the employee name. I have the department ID, okay? Some metadata and I have a manager ID. Now, you even tell me, manager ID, can I say it is basically the employee ID of that manager? Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes or no? Everybody can you give me a yes if this makes sense to all of you? Okay? Now, in this case, everyone, can I say I want to make sure that if I have a manager, let employee ID present in this, yes, if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes. So for this particular table, everyone, manager would be a foreign ID. The other ID would be a foreign key, which will refer to the employees table employee ID. Meaning, a foreign key of the employee table is referring to the primary key of the same table. Can everybody give me a yes if this makes sense to all of you? And these are the cases where sales join plays an important role. Now what you want is in this particular problem statement, let us say you want to write a question to get the employee name and the manager name of each employee. How are you going to write this query? So what you are going to do is you are going to do select. Now you have to use the employee stable twice. You have to join the employee stable onto the employee stable itself. Correct? Can everybody give me a yes if this makes sense to all of you? So here, you will have to give a yes to the employee stable to avoid ambiguity. So let us say what I do is I do select even dot employee name E2 dot manager sorry E2 dot employee name from employees E1 join employees E2 on E2 dot manager ID is equal to E1 dot employee ID and everyone this is what your sequel query would look like. Everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up with the concept of sales join is clear to all of you. Thumbs down if there is anything in this concept that is not clear to anybody. It is a normal join is just a join of a table onto itself in cases where one attribute of a table is related to other attribute of the same table. One foreign key present in the table is actually related to the primary key of the same table. Super. Now it just makes sense to all of you let us start following the questions. So the first thing that we are going to do is we are going to create the database. Okay. Now we are going to create these tables. So I have created the user stable. I have created the pages table. I have created the friendships table. I have created the likes table. I have created the posts table. I have created the comments table. Now I am going to insert the data first into the user stable then into the pages table. Then into the friendships table then into the likes table then into the posts table and then into the comments table. Okay. Now what we are going to do is we are going to have a look at the schema once to understand. First what I have is I have my core user persona which is my user in which I have the user ID is the primary key then I have the user name. I have the city and the joining date when the user joined the social media network. Then I have a pages all the social media platforms now support pages. So I have the page ID, page name and the page category. Okay. Then I have friendship which is basically a friendship between two users. So user ID one, user ID two, user one ID, user two ID. And you can see that the primary key is a combination of user one and user two. Meaning a combination of two users can only be present once in the friendships table which is basically sort of like how Facebook operates. If I am your friend you are my friend as well. It is not like how Instagram operates that if I follow you it doesn't necessarily means that you also would follow. Okay. You can see that user ID also refers to the user ID in the user's table, user ID one and user two ID also refers to the user ID in the user's table. Then I have the likes in which user ID page ID like to date, primary key is the user ID and page ID combination which means on each page a user can register a like only once. Okay. The date in which on which the user liked that particular page user ID is the primary foreign key referred from the user ID in the user's table and pages page ID is the page ID from the pages table. Then posts post ID user ID page ID post content created date and so a post is what a user will go and put on a page. Okay. For which I have the post ID unique primary key user ID is posted page ID on which it has been posted content date on which the post is created and to foreign keys user ID on the user table page ID on the page table. Okay. Now comments. So an individual can make a comment onto a post meaning comment ID unique post ID user ID comment text comment date post ID is the foreign key from the post table and user ID is the foreign key from the user table and that's it. Now data is inserted. Let's have a look at all the users. Bangalore. Okay. So for this I will need to go to the user's table. Okay. Okay. I need to display what I need to display the user ID user name and city. Simple select query right. Select user ID user name city from users where city is equal to Bangalore. Okay. You get a list of all the students from Bangalore. Everybody thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you. Thumbs down if the first query is not making sense to anybody clear to all of you that is great. Question number two. Display all the pages that belongs to the technology or business category. What are the expected column page ID page name and category. So what are we going to do here? What we are going to be doing here is we are going to go to the pages table and from the pages table we are going to fetch the page ID, the page name and the category. It is a very simple select query that we are going to execute in this case. Now there are multiple categories that we have to select from. So there are two ways to write the query here. First way to write the query is you write in clause and give the comma separated categories into a bracket or you can write where category equal to technology or category equal to business. Both of these are acceptable queries. Everybody thumbs up with the question number two also makes sense to all of you. Yes. Question three. Insert a new user into the user's table. User detail into us. How are we going to do that? We are simply going to write the insert into query. Okay. So that is also something that we have seen a lot of times now. Insert into the users in the bracket, provide the attribute names in the defined order and then a space values provide the values in the same order as the attributes have been shared. Okay, let's try to see if. Nikhil is added or not. Nikhil has been added to my user's table. Everybody thumbs up in this makes sense to all of you present in the session. That's great. Now I have a query to update Tanya's city from Bangalore to Chen. So whenever I have to execute an update query first, what I'm going to do is I'm going to write a select query. Select star from users where user name is equal to Tanya. So what I'm going to get is I'm going to get this. Now what you want to do is you want to update the city from Bangalore to Chennai. So what you do is you write a simple update query. You keep the where condition as it is. Okay. You replace the select with an update clause update users set city is equal to Chennai where the user name is equal to Tanya. One row has been updated. Let's see Tanya city has been updated to Chennai. Everybody a thumbs up. The question number four is also clear to all of you present in the session. So let's see what the set text for the first time we are writing a delete query. Let's see what the set text for the delete query is. Similar to update query, delete from. Now let's see what the set text for the delete query is. Now list the name of the table from which you want to delete. Now delete will make sure it deletes all the records that will match the condition that you will put after the delete clause. Just like the update clause as well, we have to make sure we do a thorough validation of the condition that we are importing. So what I am going to do is I am going to first make select star from likes where user ID is equal to 8 and page ID is equal to 105. So do I get a like from the user 8 on the page ID 105 is this what the where condition is giving me exactly? Yes, now I can safely delete this like from the likes post likes page. So what I am going to do is I am just going to replace the select part with delete from. Delete from likes what do you want to delete? You want to delete the attributes that matches this condition. Let's write this. One row has been affected. Now let's try to select the like by the user 8 on the post 105. There is no like by the user 8 on the post 105. Everybody thumbs up with the delete query also makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes or no? Yes, very good. Let's move on to the question number 5 everyone. Question number 5, 6 sorry. Display every user and the pages they have like. Now in this particular question I need to display the user name page name and the category of the page. What are the tables that I will need to use for this? User name is present in the user's table page name is present in the pages table and the categories present in the category table. This is what I will need to use. But is there a user ID present here? Can I join these two tables? Is there any way for me to join these two tables? No, there is no way for me to join these two tables. So where is the data stored for which user has liked which page? Like stable. Like stable. So let me show you how we process these type of queries. So there are three tables that I have. What are the three tables that I have? First I have the user's table. User's table. Then I have the likes table and then I have the pages table. In the user's table I have the attribute user ID. In the likes table I have the attribute user ID and the page ID. And in the pages table I have the attribute page ID. Everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes or no? Please feel free to give me a thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody. Yes. Now what is the question? Is the question asking you to display only those users who have liked the page? Read the question again everyone. Question number six. Display every user and the pages they have liked. Meaning we need to display each and every user. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes or no? Yes. Now everyone it is up to you on how you write in the query. You can start the query from the user's table. You can left join the likes table. And then you can inner join the pages table. Because if a page ID is present then that page ID will definitely be present in the users in the pages table. Why? Because firstly page ID is a foreign key attribute referring to the primary key of the pages table. And in the likes table if you will see the combination of user ID and page ID is a primary key. So it cannot have a null attribute present in it. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session? So there would not be any null values you can just do inner join. If there would have been a possibility of a null value we would have done a left join here as well. This will definitely be a left join. Again this is also not needed to be a left join this. This has to be a left join. Sorry. Why this has to be a left join? This has to be a left join because there can be some users who have not liked any post. So their details might not be present in the likes table. If you do a inner join here then only those users which have an exact match of the user ID in the likes table will be displayed here. But everyone there is also one more way to write this query. What is that one way to write this query? So because the likes data is present in the likes table right you start your query from the likes table. And on to the likes table you join the users table and the pages table. Okay. But which type of joins are we going to be using here? Between the when we are joining the user table onto the likes table which join are you going to be using in that case? Everyone with join are we going to be using when we join the users table onto the likes table? Which one? You are saying correct. We are going to be using the right join why because user is being joined onto the likes but I need all the details of each and every user. So this query is going to be this join is going to be a right join. Whereas this is still going to be an inner join. Everybody present in the session or thumbs up if both the ways to write the queries can still clear to all of you. Thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody present in the session. Let's write the query here. Select u dot user name p dot page name p dot category from users u left join likes L on u dot user ID is equal to L dot likes L dot user ID. Join pages p on L dot page ID is equal to p dot page ID. And here what I will have is I will have a list of all the users with the page and the category of the page that they have like. And unfortunately we do not have any null entries present here but null entries can be present as well. In case if a user has not liked any particular post everybody a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session, yes or no. So, let me give you a second. The second table is also going to be a left join every one. Why the second table is going to be a left join because when all the joins are individually combined. If you do an inner join in that case only those cases where the page ID of the like is matching exactly with the page ID of the. But here you need to understand that when I write this query there might be some users for which the entries not even present in the like stable. So, for null values you are not going to get any match in the pages table. So, if you need the data of all the users each and every query has to be a left join everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you. Thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody present in the session. Yes. No, right join I said only for the case where we are going to be using the like stable as our base table. So, there are two variations that I have shown right. Purana is so much. What are the two variations that I have shown. The first variation that I have shown was this where you start from the users table left join the like stable onto it. Left join the pages table onto the like state. This is the query that gives it. I just showed you that there is one more way in which you can do this by doing this. Now, everyone is this makes sense to all of you. Let's move on to the next question. Question number seven. Display all the users and the number of pages liked by each users. Users who have like zero pages should also be shown. Expected column user name total pages like. Now, in this particular case which are the tables that we will need to join for this particular query everyone. Everyone which tables will be joined in this case. Sorry. Users and likes do I need to join the pages table in this. Is there a need for that. No, I don't need to do that. Everybody present in the session. First of all can you give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes. Now, what I need to display is I need to display the user name. Sorry. I need to display the user name and the total pages that are like by the user. So, what do you need to do here? Can I say for each user you need to group the users and get the count of the pages that are in the table. So, what do you need to do here? I need to do the count of the pages that the user is like. Can everybody give me a thumbs up first of all? The logic of the question number seven makes sense to all of you present in the session. But for each user how will you get the pages that the user is like to do that you will have to join the user and the likes table. So, let's write the query for this. Now, let me go to the moment from user's view. Join. Now, because I want the detail of each and every user whether they have a like or not I am going to perform a left join. Users view left join likes. L on u dot user ID equal to L dot user ID. Now, this is the table that I have created. What is it that I want from this table? What I want from this table is the user name. So, u dot user name. What else do I want is I want the count of the likes by each user. So, what I will have to do is I will have to group this by the u dot user name. And then the aggregate function that I will compute for these groups formed by the user name is the count. Count of p dot page ID. Everybody present in the session can you give me a thumbs up with the query is crystal clear to all of you. Thumbs down if there is anybody who is not able to understand this query is L dot page ID. Yes. Clear everyone? Superb. So, what I have is I have all the nine users and the count of pages like by all of the nine users. So, this is a simple classic question on the group by clause along with joining two tables at the same time. Very good. Let us move on to the question number 8 everyone. I hope all of you have created the nudges for the attendance right? Already informed? No nudges will be accepted now. They have already been created. I will call out the people at the end. So, let me do that right away. 1 double 0 75, 10380, Sari K. Venkata 10541, 10541, 1024, Sarab Kumar Yadav, Where? Yes. Thank you. I use rigid, Sarvika Sharma, Akansha Tidake, Where? Bich Pillar, Tickle. Venkata Shrinivasara 10553, Where? Amiraj, Where? Ponsa, So, you have to sit here. Okay. Nipun Kalsotra, Raghavesh Sharma, Deshya Patel, Shithich, Devanch Singh, Devanchuraj, Anud Suttar, Again I will repeat Venkata 10541, Not present, please ask him to come and meet me. Okay. Coming back to the next question. Question number 8. Display the pages that have received more than two likes. Display the pages that have received more than two likes. What will I do? I will do the same thing that I have done in the last query. Okay. What I am simply going to do is, Instead of P.user name, I am going to print U.user name, I am going to print P.page name, Count of L.page ID from pages P. Left join, Again, because we need to find only the pages that have likes, You can just use a join as well, Like L on P.page ID is equal to L.page ID, Group by P.page name. But now we need to filter the groups as well. And we need to have count of L.page ID greater than two likes, Two. And there are two pages, Tech daily and travel India, We have more than two likes, More than two likes on their pages. Everybody, a thumbs up with the query for the question number. Is still clear to all of you? Thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody. Yes, moving on to the question number nine. Display the users who have commented on the post created by the users from different city. This is interesting. So what do we need to find out? We need to display the users. Users who have commented on posts created by users from different city. Can everybody first of all give me a thumbs up if the problem statement is making sense to all of you present in the session. Yes or no? Everyone yes or no? Yes. So now if I just draw a small diagram like this, Users who commented on the posts created by users from different city. There are users coming two times in my query. Can I say both the users are different? Yes or no everyone? Yes, hence to avoid any sort of ambiguity, I am going to call this user as commenter and I am going to call this user as creator. Now everyone, what do I need? How do I solve this question? There are multiple ways to solve this question. One solution to this question is by using sub query. One solution to this question is by using a join as well. Let's try the solution using join. What do I need to do? First of all, for each post, I want to get the user and the city of the post. So I am going to join the post onto the users call it as an alias creator. Everybody, a thumbs up first of all, if this makes sense to all of you. Yes. Now for each post, I want the comments. So what I am going to do is on the post table, I am going to join the comments table. And for each comment, I want to fetch the users who have commented on to that post who do not belong to the same city as the user that have created the post. Everybody, a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. The query. Yes. Okay. Again, one more way to start from this or one more way to write this query is, what is the question, everyone, the question is, display users who have commented on the post created by users from a different city. What is it that you need to display? Commenter name, commenter city, post creator name. Okay. Commenter name, post creator city, and the comment text as well. Which means can I say that every unique comment? So imagine let's say Raga is from Delhi. Take a Raga creates a post and Rav is from Merit. Rav goes and comments on each of the posts of Raga. Some blasting comment. Can I say if Rav and Raga combination is present multiple times, I have to fetch them every single time because I also need the original comment. Can everybody give me a yes and this makes sense to all of you present in the session? Yes or no? Yes. Which means in this particular query, if you carefully analyze the query, what you actually need to do is for every comment you need to fetch these details, but you need to filter out those comments where the commenter ID is different from the creator ID. Everybody, a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you? Yes, that's great. So here what I'm going to do is I am going to start from the comments table. Now from the comments table on to the comments table, I'm going to join the pages table of the table. Okay. Okay. And the comments table, I'm going to join the user's table again as the commenter who has posted this comment. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if the query that we are going to be using is making sense to all of you present in the session? Yes. Now even the idea is at all the places each and every attribute, we can just use a normal inner join because if a post is created, it will be created by a user. If a comment is present, it will be made by a user. So normal join can be used in this case. Let us write the query now. Okay. Select. What do I need? Commenter.user name as commenter name, commenter.city as commenter city, commenter city, comment creator dot user name as post creator name, comment creator dot city as post creator city, c dot comment text as comment. Okay. From the comments see, okay, join users commenter on c dot user ID is equal to commenter dot user ID. So first for that particular comment, I have fetched the commenter name by joining the comments table with the users table on to the commenter dot user ID, c dot user ID is equal to, sorry, comments dot user ID, c dot user ID is equal to commenter dot user ID. Okay. Join. Now I need to join the post stable, POSTS post P on c dot post ID is equal to P dot post ID. So now what I have done is I have joined the comments on to the post to fetch which post this comment belongs to. And now I am going to join the post to the user's table again to get which user have created this particular post. Join users creator on p dot user ID is equal to creator dot user ID. Okay. Is this the final query everyone? Is this the final query? No, this is not the final query. Why is this not the final query? In this final query, although we don't have a data that can support the evidence that we're looking for. But this is not the final query because in the final query in the question, it is also mentioned that the post should be created by a user from a different city, meaning in the final query, I just need to add a condition which is where commenter dot city should not be equal to this is the symbol of not equal in my sequel creator dot city. And everybody present in the session can give me a thumbs up in the final query is crystal clear to all of you. Thumbs down if there's anything in the final query that does not make sense to anybody present in the session. I'll be happy to explain again. I'll be happy to discuss again, but a thumbs up if the final query is crystal clear to all of you present in the session. Come on everybody appreciating a little bit more responses here if this makes sense to you. A thumbs down if this query is not making sense to anybody. Now coming on to the question number 10. Question number 10 is display the users who have like more pages than the average number of pages like the per user. So what I need is for each user, I need the count of the pages that the user is like. Have you already written the query to fetch that? Have you already written the query to fetch that everyone? Yes. What I just need to do is I just need to compare that with the average of the count of posts like by each user. How am I going to do that? Very simple. So first of all what I need is I need the user detail you dot user name count of L dot, you query me now already, you are just going to execute the same query here. So this is for the pages I have written the same query for the user as well. Select you dot user name count of L dot page ID from users you left join like L on users dot user ID equal to L dot user ID group by you dot user. So what this will give me is this will give me this will create a group on the basis of the user ID and the user name. And it will give me the list of all the users. And the number of posts like by those users. Now what I want is I want to filter those groups filter the users on the basis of the users having likes greater than the average likes on or average like per user. How am I going to fetch the average like per user? What concept will I use to fetch the average like per user? But it goes as right by average. Average function is already with me. You don't have to write your average function. How am I just using right? Can I just have having count of L dot page ID greater than average of page ID? Can I just write that? No, I cannot write that. Why? Because what you have done here is you have created the users you have created groups on to the basis of the users. Which means now you don't have the individual user data. Now you don't have the individual likes data. Now you don't have the likes by each user. So you cannot compute the overall average. So what you need to do in this particular case is you need to write another query now. Which query you will have to write a query where you will again join the user and the likes table. And then what you are going to do is you are going to compute the average in that particular case. How we compute the average will talk about that what you were saying was absolutely correct. So groups are already created. Now what I want to do is I want to filter these groups I will do having what? Count of L dot page ID greater than and now everyone I am going to write a sub query to fetch the average likes. Let me read the question again to make it more clear. Display the users who have liked more pages than the average number of pages liked per user. So I need to compute the average number of pages liked per user. For which I will first need to compute the number of pages liked per user. Correct everyone. Correct everyone. Super. The problem with this query is let me explain again everyone. Let me explain the problem with this query. This is basically a recursive problem that we are encountering here. What you have is you have created a join where you have the user ID. The page ID that the user has liked then what you are doing is you are using a group by clause to get the user ID and the count of page ID liked by that particular user. So what you need to understand is after the group by clause this itself will become a table. Results said it will also be a table. Now on this table from this table what you are displaying is you are displaying the user ID and the count. Can along with the count you can also display an aggregate property of the count which is the average of the count. Can an aggregate property be displayed directly along with the other properties. No it cannot be displayed right. So what you will have to do is in the sub query you will have to first of all create this table. And then on to this table you will have to use the aggregate function. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes or no. Please feel free to give me a thumbs down if this does not make sense to anybody present in the session. So let me write down what we will have to do here. I am just ignoring this. First I am going to write the sub query part that we have to execute. So the first thing that I will do is I will execute this way select count star as user like count from likes group by user ID. So on to the likes table what I have done is I have created the count of likes for each user. If I execute this query what I am going to get is let me print the user ID as well. This is what I am going to print user ID and user like count. Now I do not want the user ID I only want the user like count. And for that user like count what I want to do is I want to compute the average of the user like count. So what I am going to do is here I am going to wrap this into a bracket and I am going to fetch this as what I am going to fetch this as light count. Now on this like count I do not need this like count. What I need is I need the average of this like count. So what I am going to do is select average of user like count from this. Now let us look at what we have done here. This is a new concept for all of you. Please listen to this very carefully when I am talking about this new concept. Here everyone up until now whenever we are using a sub query we were using the sub query in our select clause or in our where clause. Can I say this is the first time we have used the select query in the from clause. Can everybody give me a thumbs up if this makes sense to all of you present in the session. Yes. So what happens when we use the select query in the from clause. What happens when we use the select query in the from clause is or when we use a sub query in the from clause is that the result set of the sub query. The output of the sub query is actually treated as a table which is called as a derived table. So it is not a table that is actually created in the databases it is just a virtual table which is basically the output of a sub query. And as we know whenever a query is executed the first clause to be executed is the from clause from where you are fetching the data. So the first query that will be executed is select count star as user count like from the likes group by the user ID. So what we have done is for each user I figured out the count of users and I have output that as a table. If you want along with the user count you can also sort of fetch the user ID like how we have done here. So in this query along with the count I am going to set fetch the user ID as well. It is not a thing but I am just going to fetch that. So what this will do is the inner query will return this table user ID and the like count. Now what I am going to do is on to this table I am going to execute the aggregate function which is the average like count. So from this table I need the average like count per user. This query is going to give me the average like count per user. Let's see. Sorry. I think by mistake I have a colon presence of it. So select average user count from select user ID, count star as user like count. How I see it from from likes group by user ID. So now what I have is I have the average user like and this is what I want to use to filter the elements that were present in the above group by clause. So what I am going to do is I am going to paste this or copy this query and I am going to use this query in the query here. So I have created the groups for each group I have the user name and the count. So what I will do is I will just do having count of L dot page greater than the result of this sub query. Now what is the result of this sub query? And these are the users who have the count of likes greater than the average count of likes by each user on all posts. So if you have a query that is present in the session, give me a thumbs up if this query is still clear to all of you. Everybody a thumbs up if this is clear to all of you. Now even what I want is I want all of you to try the questions from question number 11 to question number 14. We have a little bit of a constraint of a time. So we will have to end the session now. What I will do is I will keep one additional doubt session online session where I will only discuss the solution to these four questions or I will post a video on the group explaining solutions on to these four questions. If you have any doubts on to that, please let me know. But these four questions 11 to 13, 14 will define the most difficulty level of question that can be asked in the examination. Again the logic will remain the same. If you look at any single query here that we have written, there is nothing that is present in the queries that is outside the scope of the discussion that we have had within the lectures. The only difference in the questions will be it will be a combination of multiple queries that you will have to put together. For example, here the goal was to fetch the average like count of users on to the posts. So for that what we had to first was we had to first identify the sub query that we need to write. Based on that sub query, we were able to find the result here. The only new concept that we have discussed in today's section is the derived table concept. Please make sure to revise and learn the derived table concept properly because that is a very important concept from SQL. Although the questions from derived table will only be restricted to one or two at max in the examination. But majorly from the point of view of SQL, it is very very important concept. We are going to discuss derived table more in the next session where we will be learning window functions properly. But for now people that is it from my side in today's class. Thanks a lot everyone for being a part of the session. If there is anything that is not clear to you any questions that you have for me please feel free to stay back. I will be happy to answer the questions. Again by the end of the break which is by 4 or 5 pm, I will make sure to add all the solutions to all the questions that have been shared in the sheet. Let me do that right away as well I already have the solution present with me. Sorry? My secret. You You Good? Certainly teacher. Certainly it from social distancing training my I was actually totally sealed back to see days, so it's pretty good. Right? And how do I do that? I believe it functions. No, I have it in the caliphon. Right? The way that reports the best seller by brutal kill price, if there is a tie, they put them on. I look them. But now, after looking at it, a group of holes go out and it's two rows. How do I get two rows? There are never two rows in a group. Group by clause always. The same attribute basis that you have to group it, it's to collapse into one single. It's no final, it's a 20 or 20, it's a semi-intial column. But it's still in the rows. No, it's in the rows. The point is partitioned. Now, it's a very cute one. Group by the point here. Group by the point here. The above is group by here. Group by, all the similar attributes, they club in one row. That's the vehicle we've read that in the group by, you cannot have non-aggregated columns, not present in the group by clause. Group by, there are no individual rows. Every group has a collapse into one single. It's a single row. No, it's not a group. Now, you have to select the seller ID. The seller ID has to do it, you can select an aggregate function for that group as well. What do you want to do? You want to select the seller ID. I'll just do it. Now, to select the seller ID, we'll add total of three. So, what do you want to do? I want to add some sub-mark. Sub-mark. Or do you want to do some multi-marked items? I want to put them all in. So, the first thing you want to do. So, now, we have to give the seller ID. We don't want to use the other person. And we have to put the price in the next item. This is how to do it by way. We never use it for the first item. We can't get it in the next item. We have one entry out of the house. So, these two will be counted. I understand. For some reason, you need to turn on the opposite hand. So, after your aggregate function here, we can click the balance point. Now, if you order the product. Or, if we order it here. Even it holds the correct position after the wash, then you can use the correct way. You have to try to do something. And that's because you need a thought. You have to order them. You have to be quite fast. You can check out the book. But you have to have a skill. Why is this book? First of all, you have to return the best. There is a tie. Meaning if you're at home, you have the same best price. Total price. Then you have to sort them on the basis of the seller. Second, at the point that you would have thought this game on the basis of the seller. And that will mean the sending order you don't have to define the rightness. But now, here what you're going to do is, you don't have to display all the items. Correct? Now what is the problem? First of all, right now, who is having a lot of things? That's my idea. I just ordered. Now what is the problem? What is the problem? I have to. I have to sort them. I've already sorted them. Now what I can do is, if I want to knock it. I can just at the end. I can just knock it off. I meant to put it first. But what this will do is, you'll only give me the top end. In case there is a tie, you'll not give me the result of the tie. Just fully. So what I need to do is, I need to pick it up. I need to pick it up. How will I pick it up? Just kind of having. Just this way. 7 to 10 times. That's the problem. Some of the products. It won't be too likely. It's equal to... Now what you need is, you need the maximum some of the prices. That's right. So what you're going to do is, you're going to do the same things that you've done. So let's go. Good bags. So this is just a... I'm still like here. I'm more positive than the price. I'm positive that it's even more. Braw using it. Braw, braw, braw. From this group, people that people... You can go ahead. You can go ahead. You can go ahead. You can go ahead. You can go ahead. You can go ahead. You can go ahead. Right. Right. Right. Right. Go, go. From... From the currency. Sales. This group is very rich. Group of 5. It's a very good... It's an arrived. That's the... So what this field is? On most... This innermost field. This field is in groups on the base. This is an arrived. You can go ahead. You have to... Right. The name of all the tables... Let's say... Full evidence. Full evidence. Full evidence. Any signature name? Cellulite total. Because we're not going to be... But... Because you're doing a match of... Because we're... You have to make it all in here. You... You'll get some of my... So it's... That's your channel. So I'll go to... Go, go, go. So I'll go to... I'll explain the... Go, go, go, let me... You know what I mean? I'll go to the... The innermost field. You'll get a combination... You see, it's... Ericane, right? You know, one comment... That gives you... The... The... toplos of one name... For all the sellers... As the total... And... So it's written in the table, and as an envelope... In which... All I have is... But one... Cellulite... And I just reflect... That the total... But... The amount I need, I need the maximum of... So I've written the very... On top of it! Now select the max... Aggregated... Prome. So the Yukator ticking... Now that I have the max, I see... So, we have to select those groups where some of the price is just wishable to this kind of group. Okay. So, on top of that is the main where you have group the sales on the basis of the sales list. Yes. There is a same question that if we put into question then we are on credit first terms So what we did was we created a very outstanding class. So, we also need to return it. I need to return the same right. Some of the other things. Some of the things. But in your original or out you know you need to return the same. I don't have no function. I don't have. I don't have function. See. You don't need to return the same. See. See. See, I don't have. See. See. See. See. So, actually I am kind of having this faculty with this amazing, by a writing the having condition in group, right and sometimes deciding whether I should use join on. The reason for that was because you were unclear on what group I was. Now, you have cleared the group by on base or the video whichever attribute you are using the group by top, it will collapse all the records the matching attribute into a single S. Now, what records can be displayed with those groups? First we, the records that we use in the group by because there are common attributes for all of the entries in the box. And along with that, if you want to use anything, you will also compute the aggregate of that base and we sum it in max. If you want to filter them on the basis of another attribute which is the not a property of the group. So, this is a group then because of base or month, how I want to filter in base or another part. Yes, which is not a part of your group. For that, we have to write the summary to fetch that detail from the table again from the page. Okay. Yeah. Sir, my question is. Yes, I am telling you everything. I am coming to you. Yes. But, anius is, where we have to write a column. What we have to write as this name, that anius means your thickness. That is why, because if you have to join two tables, you have to join two tables. What will be the issue? What will be the issue? What will be the issue? What will be the issue? The second user will identify the sequence when you are able to do it or not. Okay. What will we do in that case? In that case, we will give anius to the user. The second user will give anius to the user. You too. Okay. And what will happen? It will happen. We will identify properly between both of the users. Which user will you refer to? We have just said here. Now, when we have joined the multiple tables, one user is our creator, and the other is our comment. Now, if we don't give anius to the creator or comment, then the user will be user. How do you know that? Which user, when you are using the user.usrID, will you call it a comment or creator? You know that. Correct. Correct. You can create all the things in the area where you can also create the elases for attributes. You can create the elases for what they call table names. Hello. One minute. Yes, I will do this. Okay. Now, the second thing is that we use elases. We will use them in a moment. I will tell you. I will not go there. No. I will tell you. I will not go there. No, no. I will tell you better. Okay. Solutions also added. I have added all the solutions. The first thing we have added in the same document in the first 15 solutions. We will add other solutions. Okay. Now, coming back to the second. When do we use the elases? And we use them in the same way.