Okay, okay, so the recording does not have the audio, okay, when I am sure, okay, no worries. Screen share also, yeah. All set, everybody can see the screen, right? Cool. Cool. So wherever we, so we were discussing what all we can do with pandas. Some of you mentioned that it's a Python library. It can be used for data analytics and some of the things that you mentioned was grouping and aggregation. What else? Connecting errors in what sense? Is there a data structure that pandas provides me? That is usually helpful for analyzing the data, visualizing the data, looking at the numbers, yeah. Yes. So it provides me a data structure called data frame and series, okay, series is fine. But what is a data frame, folks? What is a data frame? What are its content, like what are its characteristics? What does it contain? How do I represent my data in a data frame? Do I have rows and columns? Right? So it's analogous to a spreadsheet or a Google sheet, right? It has rows and columns. So basically pandas is a data analytics library which you can use to do multiple operations, like grouping, aggregation, finding insights about certain features and columns. Can I do visualization using data of pandas as well? Like, can I do our charts? Yes or no? So visualization is also possible. I can plot charts using pandas as well. We'll see. Cool. Any questions, any questions in our folks? Any questions in this? I hope that's just a quick revision. Everybody is aware what pandas is, what pandas does. Today we'll go, today we'll deep dive into solving a business case studies with pandas. So this is the agenda for the day. So let's get started with it. Let me quickly share the notebook with you. So you should be able to view the link. Cool. Those who want to kind of work side by side, I advise to kind of create a copy of it. And there you can edit as well because for this we just have the view access. Any questions before we start? Everybody is set. Good to go. Perfect. Okay. So look at the table of contents. So we're going to look at a data set called IMDB movie. Does anybody know what IMDB is? What is IMDB? Okay. So basically IMDB is a website that contains information about movies. Contains info about movies. Let's look at the website also first. Let's try to open it here. IMDB. So see, when I search on it, I can see, okay, what all I can see? Now they're started to kind of create their own content as well. That's something that I was not aware of. But apart from that, I can see most popular celebrities. I can create my own watch list, top 10 movies for this week. I think this is something related to my projection. And the boys, it's a TV series. Welcome back. So basically it creates information, but contains information about entertainment, like TV series, movies. If I click on any one of them, let's say I click on this. It shows, what does it show me? It can take a look at the trailer, I can see a few videos from it, photos from it. Then what else do I see? I see who's the director, who's the writer of the movie, who are the stars, who are basically the cast. Then you see user reviews, critic reviews. So in a nutshell, it's a website that tells me a lot of information about movies. Right? So one can think, when you have so much information, you can draw a lot of insights from this information. Yes or no? Can we extract a lot of insights from this? So now tell me, think about it. Now you know the context, right? What IMDB is? So what type of questions, let's say you are working with some senior executives with IMDB? What are some of the questions that you can answer related to their business or related to their website? Can you even think of questions? What all we can extract from this? Let's look at the page, look at this page only. What all information do you think is relevant? Or what do you information, what kind of information is important? Yes. So here we see IMDB rating, right? 7.7 out of 10. So one is IMDB rating. So what does rating tell me, folks? What does IMDB rating tell me? I've extracted this now. To my user, to my customer, how is this helpful? Like to you as a customer? Why do you think this rating matters to you? Like what problem does it solve? How much, how good is the content, right? How good is the content, something like that? Yes or no? Everybody agrees? Yes. Any questions? What else, folks? What else? What else? What else do you see from this description? Okay. So there's some text information that is available here. The early life musician Michael Jackson. So why is this description helpful? Why is the IMDB providing this information? Why is this description helpful? It will tell you what the movie is all about, right? Or what the content is about. So it will give you a gist, whether it worth your time, you should watch it or not. So you can take a guess or get some information with what this content is. So you can take a guess or get some information with what this content is about. Then do you see these tags, doQ drama, period drama, psychological drama, things like that? So what information does it tell to my user? What information does this tell to my user? The genre of the content. Why do you think it's helpful? Why is genre is helpful? Sorry. Exactly, exactly. So, if I know about myself, if I like comedy movies, right, my genre is comedy. I would probably not look into was this content, right, because there's nothing about comedy, it's more drama oriented. Yes or no? Everybody is clear with this? Then it gives information like director, writer, because some people are very particular about the was content from certain directors only, right, or some people follow certain stars only. So, that gives you information whether this content contains or that this movie has your favorite actors or celebrities that usually you follow. So, that kind of information, then what types of awards does this movie has been nominated for? And what kind of wins that it has made? Cool. So, from this we can infer that there's a lot of questions that we can answer, a lot of insights that we can extract. So, let's start with some of the very basic insights. So, yeah, we have two datasets. One is related to the movies and the other is related to the director, like the director's of those movies. So, we have two separate CSV files. Today we will see how can we apply functions onto a data frame with the help of another function called apply, group by like aggregation like as of some of you mentioned, what all aggregated insights that we can extract with the help of group by. So, this is the business problem. Imagine you're a data scientist that are leading into 10 analytics firm, you're client, a major film studio. So, basically let's say, you asked your studios or any other Netflix studios come to you to your engagement analytics firm. They want to understand the key trends in the movie industry to make informed decisions about future productions. So, now think why would let's say Netflix come to you? Why would a movie production house come to you? Like a production house is something that produces movies, right? So, why do you think they would come to you? Like you are an entertainment analytics firm. Why would they come to you? Promote them, we are not into promotion, right? We are, we provide analytics about what's happening in the market at the moment. Exactly. So, why would Netflix come to you? Netflix would want to know what's working and what's not working, right? Let's say if I'm a movie producer, that means before the movie starts making some money, I will have to spend from a pocket, I will have to hire celebrities, I will have to hire script writers, I would have to spend money on deciding the location. You might have read the news, right? Indian, even Hollywood movies spend hundreds of crores to kind of just shoot and produce movies. So, don't you think having prior information like what's working and what's not working in the market would be a worthwhile investment before I spend this huge amount? Does that make sense to everyone? Cool. So, yeah, one of the things that you could answer for them is what's working and what's not working for them. What's working and what's not working in the market. Anyway, you can help them by analyzing the trends. Yes or no? Analyzing the trends. Some of the examples you can think of it, like in India today, what trend do you see? Like what type of movies are coming every now and then? Any thoughts? Like what type of movies are coming? What do you mean by mass? Okay. So, he says action movies are coming with what is the most recent action movies that you saw? Okay. He says Durandar. But do you think movies like Durandar are much more like they highlight a much more different trend. Action is a very broad trend, right? Yes. Nationalism or patriotic? Everybody agrees? Yes or no? Like in recent interview, if you look how many movies that are related to nationalism have come into the market? Durandar is well like Durandar use or two parts. Then sometimes you go Uri came, right? And people were like it was in news that something related to operations in Durmid also come, right? So, what does this tell you? This tells us that in the country, at the moment maybe nationalism and patriotism is a trend that is running, right? So, what would be your advice to a movie studio like Netflix studio or any other studio? You could analyze these trends and let them know, right? This is the trend that is going on in the market. Maybe you can look into this genre. Yes or no? What else? What else could, what other information can you provide? What other information can you provide? Sorry, please be a little loud. Whom to cast? Right? Which celebrity is, you know, entrained like who are in demand, right? Who are people following these days, right? And what are celebrities that are currently popular? Anything else related to this? Sorry? Music. Music is mine. Okay, what type of music is running like? Romantic, as it were, I get patriotic side. Sorry? Please be a little loud. Loud music, is that what you're saying? Loud BGM. Loud BGM, is it type of a music? Okay, okay. Then what else? Can you also tell them information about directors, whom to cast, like who should direct this particular type of movie? Yes or no? And how do you identify whether someone is a good director or not? If you look at the, if you look at the files that we have, one is related to directors, right? So this would have information about the past, performances, what type of movies that they have created and what, you know, what type of watch they have won, how much money they have made, things like that. So do you think these kind of information would be helpful for a production house before they make this decision of investing this amount of money? Cool. Now let's try to implement some of these. First thing, G-Down. I think everybody is aware of what G-Down is. We discussed in the last class. What is this library used for? What is this library used for? For downloading files from Google Drive, it's written in the comment above as well. So this library helps you download files from Google Drive. So first things first, I'm installing this library called G-Down. So PIP is a package. It lets me install multiple libraries that are available there. It's a packet manager. So the command for this is exclamation mark, PIP install. So I'm telling PIP to install and hyphen of upgrade. This means give me the most upgraded or the most recent version of the library, right? And then name of the library, G-Down. So once you run this, you will see that you're kind of downloading the files, whatever I need it. It says requirement already satisfied. This means that my system already had that, so there was no need for me kind of writing this comment. Then here, this is the basically ID of the Google Drive file. So this is my Google Drive link. You see there's a column called this value call metadata called ID equal to. And I'm just simply pasting it. And I'm downloading the CSV file from the internet. Is this clear? Any questions on this? Any questions on these two syntax? Cool. So once you download this, once you run this command, it's connecting. Once you do that, you should see the movies.csv in somewhere here. It should come like once it's connected. If I run this again, so let's say I run this and I run this right now it's not showing because the runtime got disconnected and it reconnected. Now once these cells are executed, you should start seeing the files here. That's downloading started to download. Yeah. So now when I kind of reload, you see movies.csv has popped up. So this notebook is very descriptive. You can go home and read exactly about G down as well. So next, I'm downloading another file for directors. Again, the same G down command, but with a different Google Drive website link. Now you see I have the directors work CSV as well. So what is the CSV by the way? What is the CSV? Coma separated values. What does that mean? So CSV is comma separated. CSV stands for comma separated values. It's a type of file. So if you look at it, it's in the back and it's stored something like this. Value 1, comma value 2, comma value 3. So what does this say? This means the values are separated by what? A comma. So this is, that's why it's called comma separated values. Is this clear? Cool. Now that I have the files loaded, next thing is that I'm going to import the libraries that I'm going to use. So first things first, importing the pandas, importing the numpy. I hope everybody is aware of the alias and why do we need to import the libraries? We have discussed that plenty of time. Yes or no? Cool. Now that we have the libraries imported, first thing we're going to read the CSV file. For that we're using which function? Read CSV. And then passing the movie name. The file name. So here, let me just, I'll have to copy the whole part. And then paste it here. This should be the correct. Cool. Now what? What am I doing here? The movie is what? What does the head function do? What does the head function do? Display is the first five rows. Anyone else? Anyone else? What does head do? Nobody is aware of what the head function does. Only one person knows. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. So it displays first end rows. Not necessarily five. Five is just the default value. If you look at the definition of the function, n is by default five. But you can change this to any other value you want. So it can display 10 rows as well, 15 as well, 20 as well. Is this clear? So let's quickly look at it. So if I do 10, right? Let me quickly run this also. So you see, now it shows me 0 to 10, first 10 value. So 0 to 9. So it's not necessarily five only. Is this clear? Now the other function that I'm using is dot info. What does dot info tell me? What does the dot info function tell me? What does the dot info function tell me? Yeah. Anyone? I said, what do you understand like the word info? Sorry. Giving information. So basically it gives me information related to my data frame. If you look at it, it tells me what are the columns that are available? One says unnamed colon 0, id, budget, popularity, basically the name of the columns. And non-nil count. What does non-nil count tell me? What does non-nil count tell me? Yeah. Isn't that working? I just saw that for a second. Yeah. So what is the number? What is that? That's right. That's the okay. More than? So what does that mean? What is md? What else? Not defined. So basically something that my CSV file cannot read, right? It could be a missing value. It could be a missing value. Something that is kind of not defined garbage value, things like that. So that's what a null value means. So non-nil means, which are valid value, which are legitimate values. So this tells me how many non-nil values that I have, 1465. And lastly, the data type. Like what is the data type of each column? So what do you infer from these columns? What does ID stands for? What do you think ID would mean here? What do you mean ID would mean here? What do you think ID would mean here? A unique identifier. Everybody here has a student ID, right? So that means that's an identifier for you. It's a unique identity. No two percent can have the same student ID. So an ID is a unique identifier. That kind of categorizes or identifies a movie here. A unique ID should be unique, identify. So tell me what's next. Budget. Like what do you think what budget would mean here? What would budget mean here? The movie's budget. How much money was spent in making this movie? How can you use this budget variable to help the production studio? Okay. But this gives me historical budget. Budget for other movies. Not my budget. So using this budget, how can I help my production? Can anyone think? Exactly. So I can tell the production house, okay, if you are looking for a certain, if you're looking to create a certain type of movie with certain type of stars, certain type of movie, you're estimated budget because see, I cannot come up with a fixed number that I'm going to spend 100 crores. I would go to this firm and this firm would tell me, as the estimated amount of the estimated budget that you can shoot this film, produce this film would be, let's say value 1 to value 2. So within this range, let's say 80 to 90 crores, 85 to 90 CR. This should be a good budget for getting this type of movie. So I can advise the company about how much money they should spend. Is that clear? So that type of information I can extract from the budget. Then popularity, revenue, I think, self-explanatory. Now you tell me, unnamed zero, what is this? What is this unnamed zero? Any thoughts? What does this look like? What does this look like, folks? Any thoughts? What does this unnamed zero column look like? As a let me help you, let's open a spreadsheet. So this is a Google analogous to a data frame. Do you see some numbers running here? So these are just index value, right? They doesn't provide any information per se. So it's exactly the same. In this CSV file somehow, this index file has persisted. So what should we do about this? What should we do about this column? We can remove it or we can drop that column. We'll see how we can do that. Next function is described. What does describe do? What does describe function tell me? Sorry. Discreption of the movie, not really. So movies is a data set that we have. Let's say we have some other directors. I can use the describe function in directors as well. So what would describe do then? Does anybody know what does describe do? I think everybody told me that we have started pandas. So describe is a pretty basic function. What does that tell me? Okay. So he says mean median mode. Okay. Does describe tell the mode as well by the way? It doesn't tell the mode. So basically describe function gives you descriptive statistics. What are descriptive statistics? Statistics I think was done in the previous semester. So what is descriptive statistics? So descriptive statistics are basically stats that give you quantitative values. Like mean, like median, like standard deviation. What is other name for median? In terms of percentile, what is which percentile is the median? 50th percentile. What type of other percentile we can calculate? 25th percentile. 75th percentile. So these are some of the information that descriptive describe function provides. Count. Count is another information that is provides. So if you can do this, move is not describe. And you look at it. See for each column, I'm getting account for each value I'm getting a mean for each value I'm getting a standard deviation for each well, I'm getting a minimum value. 25th percentile, 50th percentile, which is the median. 70th percentile and the maximum value. So these are descriptive statistics for each column is provided by the describe function. So if you tell me one thing, there is this poem called title, right? But do we see title anywhere here? Do we see title anywhere here? Why I don't see title here? Right. So I cannot calculate the mean value for title, right? Title is a descriptive or string value. I cannot calculate the average for this. So this descriptive function or the describe function is telling only the quantitative stats. But can I include somehow include the non numerical values also? Can I include somehow the non numerical values? Anybody has any thoughts, any ideas? So you have studied this before. Sorry? Type equal to object. Somewhere close. Let's go to the documentation of pandas. Describe pandas documentation. So this is the official documentation for the Pandas library. So now you see this is function, this is parameter called include and exclude. So let's go to the definition of this include. It takes a value called all, right? When I do all, it means all columns of the input should be included, right? Let's try to send this value include all. So now you see I start. Now I can see title as well. So include all tells me that in irrespective of the data type include all the columns. But if you look at it, I cannot see mean value or standard deviation. It's all nan, right? Or null values. Why? Because mean is not defined for title standard deviation cannot be defined for title. But what is defined for title? Count how many titles we have? Unique. How many unique titles we have? Top like which title is coming the maximum number of times. So I think this in some other language. So this is coming the most number of times in my dataset frequency. Just once. So that means it's a random value. So do you get the point how to kind of include non numerical values in the describe function? And you see the statistics are also increase the unique top and the frequency. Is this clear? Any questions? Any doubts anyone? Cool. Next, next, next, next, next, next, next. What are we going to do? There's one more. I think that's all right. As a last. What is is not some do? Move is what is not some what do you understand from this? What do you understand from this dot is not some? Please be allowed. Yes, the total null values in each column. The total null values in each column. As we can see there are no null values. So we're getting zero here. Is this clear? Cool. If this is clear. Can you folks write the same code for the director's file? Like right now I'm going movies or CSV. Can you tell me how can I see the top 15 rows for directors file? The descriptive statistics and the null count for the director's file. So let me just add one cell here. Tell me the following. Read the directors dot CSV. Tell me the descriptive stats for the director's file. And give me the number of null values for the director's file. Now tell me what code should I write here? What code should I write? Are you going to tell me what should be the first step that I do? Sorry. Read the CSV file. Okay. So I can create a file called df directors variable. And how do I read this. Yes, you file. PD dot. It's CSV. Right. What should I do next? How do I see the descriptor stats? Yes, I can do. DF directors dot describe and include all. Now tell me last step. How do I give the number of null values? Yes. So I can do display deabletters dot is null dot sum. And if I do print, if I do print, if I do print, if I do print, if I do print, you see the format kind of changes. On the other hand, here I was seeing a different more clear table or a better looking table. It's decided maintains that. That's the difference. And it can only be used for pandas data frames. Cool. So here I can see that there are only three values, a director's name, the idea and gender. So not much information to extract from. Is this clear? Now if you get any random CSV file or any file that is related to a data set, will you be able to kind of loaded, take a look at the data and find out the null values? I said before proceeding, let's try to analyze some statistics also. If you look at the budget column, let me for now, let's, let me remove the include all parameters so that I only see numerical values. I said, he gets. So that is one thing I can get this descriptive table. What do I do with it? What do I do with the stable? What do I do with the stable, folks? I said, look at the budget column. What does this tell me? What does the budget column tell me? What does the budget column tell me? Anything suspicious or any flag, red flags you see in this column? Take a look carefully at the budget column. Do you think there is some problem, there is some issue? Yes? What's the problem with the minimum value? Right. Can I make a movie in zero budget? Can anything be done for free? So what this means that there is some garbage value or some wrong entry in the data set. So now before doing extracting any insights, you should always ensure the sanity of your data. So now let's say because of this mean mean value, what other statistics could get corrupted? What others, somebody said that. The mean value could get corrupted, you know. Now let's say you did not clear this, you did not remove this value. And you went to your production house and said that you get the average money that people are spending is this around what 4.8 10 to the past 7. So what does that become? 4.8 and then you have 7 zeros. This is the amount of money that people are spending. But would that be the correct information? No. Because your data had corrupt or a wrong value which pulled down the mean. Right. It pulled down the mean because of the small value due to which you got a significantly lower value. And now let's say the production house agrees to you and decides this is the budget that they want to create the film for. What they'll realize that this is too less. They would need more money to fund the film. It's a wrong information that you provided. So it's always better to kind of have a sanity check and clean your data. We'll see how we'll be clean this. But the point there is don't just print the table figure it out what information is telling what insights you can extract from it. Is that clear? Cool. Anything else do you see? So what does this max 2016 about here tell me? What does max 2016 tell me? Yes, as per this data set like this data set is still the data has 30 2016. You cannot use this in 206 right this is 10 year old data. So this is how you kind of just look at it and extract the insights from it right. So everyone clear any questions any doubts? Any doubts? As a look at the director's table here you see gender. How many rows do I have? How many rows do I have in this data set? Sorry. How many rows do I see here? How many rows do I see in this data set? Be a little loud so that I can hear. Nine rows. No, no, not in this table in this data set director CSP. 1724 okay. Someone else. Get someone else say, somebody the number. So here I see 234 right in the count. So what could this different difference mean? Sorry. What does that mean? Null. So the remaining values are missing right. So I can like from this I can interpret there are 2349 rows but the gender column tells me that there are only 724. That means for the rest of the rows 234 and 1 724 the values are missing or the values are null. Now gender unique values are 2 male and female. What does the next 2 rows tell you? What does the next 2 rows tell you about the gender column of the directors? What can you what insight can you extract from the last 2 rows? Sorry. Be a little loud. So what? I can see that. So what insight to do you extract what insight do you see? Okay so what does that tell you? What does that tell you about the directors profession in general? Yes. So this tells me that okay for the 1724 values that I have out of those 1574 is male only right only 200 female directors. So this from this data set it looks like this. This is our this profession is male dominated right. So this is the insight that we can extract from this information. This like for a movie production house that might not matter or it could matter if they are looking for a female director. You could point them okay probably the frequency of those are very low. So chances of getting good female directors are also very low. This is some of the insights that you can tell them. But let's say you're working for a public policy firm that figures out in a country what type of profession are male dominated what type of profession are where female representation is low. You can use this kind of information or you extract these kind of insights doesn't make sense. Any doubts any questions anyone tell now. Cool now let's see what other insights about the movies that we can extract right so these are some of the questions that we can answer. Can we identify the top movies right we can identify the most popular movies using the popularity column. I have this popularity column here right in my data frame I have a popularity column so I can figure out what are the top 10 most popular family of other movies. As I if you think about it the popularity column and here column can you tell me an insight that you can extract this only popularity and the column here what insight can you extract what metric can you give me. Just by using popularity and the year and let's say movie name also the title sorry. Okay that's fine but no what if if I give you these three data points the movie title the movie popularity and the year what information can you tell me what data can you extract and give me. Let's say you have something like this I give you a movie title popularity value and here column right title one title two title three popularity is 10 7 6 2015 2016 so on so forth. So what can you extract from this information can I answer this question what were the most popular movies every year. Can I answer this question every year which movie was the most popular movie we'll see how we can do that but with these three variables can I can I not answer this question. Okay if you think about it logically forget cold how will you do that how will you find this most popular movie every year how will you find the most popular movie. Sorry you have the popularity column directly use that how will you use that sorry sorting on here so what what will that give me let's say I sort on here 2015 2015 2015 popularity 345 2016 2016 2016 7201 right title one title two title three title four title five title six how will you extract the. Okay first step is you did the sorting what is the next step that you'll do what will be the next step that you'll do yes so next step I can do is can extract the maximum value for every year for every year I can extract the maximum value yes or no so this will tell me that in the year 2015 the movie T3 was the most popular movie. This is how you can logically solve the problem we will see how we can read the code as many anybody had any questions any doubts in this how we figured out the most popular movie for every year. I can also find the highest rated films by looking at the vote average column we can find the movies at the audience love right if you look at the data set you have this vote average column right so the movies that had the highest vote average that means the audience love them the most yes or no think of it as a Zorito restaurant. The restaurant that has the highest rating given by people that's the restaurant that people love right similar analogy can be given for movies cool let's try to look at the statistics but before before we proceed there was this column called unnamed zero right so we decided that this doesn't add any value so we will remove it so there can be two ways. Either you can directly say index call equal to zero this tells python that the first column that you see is actually index and ignore it so that is something you can do or alternatively you can do something like this pd.csv still the unnamed exists you can call it movies and you can do a drop movies dot drop this tells python. And to drop a column right unnamed square brackets unnamed zero. So now you see the unnamed column has been dropped so here what did I use I use the function called drop drop as an aim suggests it will drop something and then I pass the column in a list and this one more thing that I pass access this anybody understand access like we use this in number as well sorry yeah so access tells me access parameter tells me whether to drop the column or to drop the row access equal to one means column one means column and if I had put zero zero meant row is this clear anybody has any questions cool now that we have a shape what is shape tells me what is shape tell me yeah who said that what is dot shape tells me rows and columns number of rows that I have versus the number of columns that I have the same as numpy right numpy also had the shape function or the shape attribute so this tells me that we have 4165 rows and 11 columns next thing we are also loading the director's data the same way we did for the movies so we are reading the CSP doing the head info the same thing that we are doing for directors now let's try to merge the two data frames let me let me pick the movies data frame everybody knows SQL yeah are we studying SQL also if you are studying SQL then tell me this let's take a look at let's take a look at again this is your movies data frame and this is your director's data frame right so this tells me information about movies and the second one tells me information about directors do we see a column called director ID here what does this tell me what could this director ID tell me a unique identifier for director sorry yes so unique identifier for every director and in the director's file there's also a column called ID right this is the same unique identifier that we are using here so can I join the two using this column so wherever 4762 is I can join with 4762 so what does this tell me who directed this movie avatar James Cameron directed this movie how can I tell it how can I tell whether James Cameron directed this movie because the IDs are matching the director ID is 4762 here and director ID is 4762 here similarly look at the other one 4763 why why can I say that this person this is the one that I have highlighted is the one who directed the drivers of the Caribbean because the IDs are matching right now if you have to write a join what would be the code I tell me sequel code then we'll move to point us how can you write sequel code for it let's say the table name is movies and this table's name is director or DIR how will you join the two tables tell me the whole syntax what is the first thing that I can write select I can do from movies let me call movies M and I can select all the columns at the movies dot star yes yes or no what does M dot star tell me what does star mean all the columns now tell me what type of join should come here how many joints are there which one should come here why left join sorry all movies should have directors so how does that left tell me like what does left tell me about it we will allow right what if it doesn't exist then what do you see on the output no values so basically we will use left join why because as you mentioned in this column whatever director ID that I have I will try to look for a match in this table in case it doesn't exist I will get the null values is this clear so I'll say left directors D then I get excuse me also to D dot star this will tell me give me all the columns from director as well the director stable as well on on what M dot director ID is equal to D dot ID everybody clear with this sequel query any questions anyone so if you understand this let's try to look at the code how will we convert this into a point as code or point as way again there can be two ways let me show you the first one let's try to do a join here what is my first data frame it's called movies right everybody can see it right so in pandas there's a function called merge merge means join right then I'm going to pass so the table that comes first is considered as my left table right here this was my left table right because it came after from so the table that comes first will be my left table merge then I pass the right table which is directors then there's a parameter called how so it asks me what type of join do you want to make what type of join are we making so we'll say left then it asks on what parameter on what column do you want to join on what column so we have different names right this has director ID and other one has just ID right so in that case I'm going to say left underscore on the table the column that is present on the left which is a right underscore on right which is just ID and I'll run it and now you see in this final table I have the director name gender and this column called ID and the score will look into it but you see now the director information is present here so we saw that I was directed by which director James and we have that information so that's how you can join or merge in point as so that is one way this also one alternative way that we can do that this one way there's another way coming before coming to that let's look into one thing before I tell you the other method this two more things that you should know how can we find the number of unique directors in the movie data set so there's a function called any unique this tells me how many unique values are present in the data set so I said movies or director ID if I do let's say just movie director ID you see I get all the director IDs now if I do any unique what does this tell me the number of unique values that I have and if I remove the end dot unique then what does it tell me can anyone think sorry okay what was it that all the unique values so these are the unique values that I have director ID so dot dot unique gives me all the unique values similarly I can do a directors dot unique directors what ID right directors ID dot unique yes or no now pandas provides me a function called is in called is in now carefully look what is happening here carefully look what's happening here I am taking movies director ID and I'm asking a question dot is in directors ID that means check if each director ID in the movie is present in the ID columns in the director's table so basically I'm asking a question I'm asking a question whether the director ID column director ID in movies in the film is in or is present in the director's table let's look at it look let's look at this table tell me is 4 764 is this value 4 764 is this present in the director's table yes or no so for this value I will get a true is 4 7 6 2 present in a director's table so for this also I'll get a true so if you look at the output of this code wherever the director ID is a comment or wherever the director ID is a present you'll simply see true and there it's not present what will what will you get so isn't it in a way left join wherever they are matching you get a true value wherever they are not matching you'll get a false value so here we'll simply use let's skip that to use the join so here like just we'll discuss they're using the merge function but you can also do it using this alternative method called using the is in and I can just pass here using the dot log parameter wherever the rows are true you'll get a output is this clear any questions in this alternative approach what does dot log do what is dot log do can anyone tell me what is log do nobody knows what dot lock does sorry coordinates like that is specific to I lock so basically what does log do here movies dot loc I can put all the valid rows or you can see wherever the condition is true right wherever the condition is true I'll get this so if I remove it for now so I'm saying wherever the director ID is present in the ID column you're seeing the true values wherever the true values are present just give me those rows is this clear any doubts sorry can I repeat sure let's break it down into two parts first I'm writing a condition is this condition clear by the way this is asking whether the director ID is not whether the director ID in movies column is present in the ID column of the directors let's try to understand this way let's say this is the director ID column coming from this is like the inner join yes 4 7 6 2 4 7 6 3 100 4 7 6 4 right and this is the this is coming from which table movie stable ID column this is coming from the director TV right 4 7 6 2 4 7 6 3 4 7 6 4 now you tell me is is 4 7 6 2 is in 4 7 is this director ID present in this list yes or no so you get a true value is 4 7 6 3 is in is this in this list is this 100 is in this list is 4 7 6 4 is in 4 7 6 4 of this list so you get an output which is conditional true and false now this is the output of your condition now movies dot log it takes in the condition output what do they tell me it tell me show me those roles where the condition is what where the condition is true now tell me will the movies table show this row 4 7 6 2 why it will show this row because the condition is true will it show this row 4 7 6 3 because the corresponding condition is true will it show this road because the condition is false will it show this device because the condition is true So, showing only those roles where the conditions are true. So, my final output will have only three roles. This is an inner join, this is not the left join. This will be the inner join. So, in case you want to do an inner join, this is an alternative method of that. Is this clear? Now, there is one more function that I did, NP dot all. NP dot all returns true if all the elements in the Boolean C is a true. Here I did NP dot all and I get NP dot 2. What does this mean? If all the values are coming out to be true, what could this tell me? That means all the directories are present in the director's table. All the values are present. So, I am not seeing actual case where the values are not matching. So, this false for the scenario is not present in my case. So, I will get all the information. So, this is what NP dot all tells me, whether all the values are true or not. If there has been one single false, this would have given me false. Is this clear? Any questions? So, we are doing a left join as we discussed. Movie short, movie director's, how left, left on and right on. I think this is straightforward, right? We discussed any questions in this index. Any doubts, any questions? Now, we have the final table. I should tell me this. Again, let's go back to the, this thing. When I see my output, I see ID underscore X and ID underscore Y. This, these underscore X and underscore Y were not present. How did the appeal suddenly? If you look at the original tables, just look at the original tables, is ID underscore X visible anywhere? ID underscore X is ID underscore X present. What about this? Is ID underscore Y present here? This ID column is there, right? So, how suddenly it became ID underscore X and ID underscore Y? Any thoughts? So, this ID column must present here. And this ID column must present. Suddenly, this become ID X and this become ID Y. Y is that true. The loud yeah. Duplication what sense? Yes. So, basically this is Python's way to not confuse between the two. The name of the two columns are same no. This also has the name ID, this is also ID, but do they represent the same information? What does this ID tell me? What does this ID tell me? Movie ID. What does this information tell me? So, they are two different information, right? Just because they have the same name that doesn't mean that they have the same information. So, Python is not too confused with the columns. So, it will give this an X column, this will give an Y column. So, they can sort this out. If I drop this column after the join, let's say this is my join output. I didn't drop the ID Y. Can I remove the ID Y column altogether? Why? Because I already have a column called collector ID, which already has this information. So, why to keep redundant information and make my data from look a little ugly? Ugly. So, I will drop this column, right? So, what I can do is? I can simply go ahead and after the join, let's say this is the merge, I can call it movies and just call director merged. So, let's look at it. Yeah. So, as I took, drop a column, which which one should I use? Drop. Drop. What's the syntax? I want to drop the ID Y column, which axis? Y1. Y1. Because it's a column. So, now you see the ID Y is nowhere to be found. So, now there are two more parameter, like one more parameter. So, there to, right now this is not saved, right? This is not saved. If I just do this and again do a movies merge.head, you could still see the ID and score by column. So, this infertile, this after this code out, it is not yet saved. So, there can be two methods to save it. Either I can assign a same value to it, the same column name or a different, there's a different variable. So, if I let's say I do without ID Y. So, now this new variable, new variable does not have the ID Y column. But anybody see the problem with this method? If I save it in a new variable, anybody see the problem in this method? Any issues? Let's say I have 100 data frames. I'm working with a very large dataset. I have 100 data frames and all the 100 data frames have a variable and all of them have this ID Y column. So, if I follow this approach, what will happen? Sorry. So, I'll create 100 more new variables so that I can store after dropping. So, that means I'm wasting space. I'm creating 100 new variables. So, to overcome that method, there's a parameter called in place. So, that means this test I can to make the changes in place, make the changes in the original data frame itself. So, that no new variable is created or no new memory is created and we use the same data frame. Now, you see when I did in place equal to 2, the ID Y column is not there in the original variable. Is this clear in place parameter everyone? Any doubts, any confusion in this in place parameter? So, now there's one part still pending. Although ID Y has been dropped, but there's still an ID underscore X. How to clean that? So, there's a function called rename. Not rename. It takes into account a dictionary. We can pass it a dictionary called columns. What which column do we want to rename? Which column do we want to rename? So, my key will be ID underscore X. Let's call it movies ID. We can call it movies ID. Yes or no? And inside the rename function pass the column. There's a parameter called columns. This dictionary. Now, you see the movies ID. Same thing I can do in place equal to 2. This tells me that make the change in the same data frame. Any doubts, any questions anyone? See now it's movies ID. There's no longer ID X. So, one thing you don't need to remember all these functions. You can anyway, Google it. You can anyway, chat, GPT or AI tool. And the more you will work with it, you'll start to remember these functions. So, there's no kind of rush or there's no need to memorize all these functions. Is this clear? Any unique I think we discussed, tells me the number of unique values. Before we move ahead, I think it's 370. Let's take a 5 minute break. Let's take a 5 minute break. Let's come back by 322. In the meantime, if anybody has any doubts, any questions, they can ask me. Those who want to go out for water or for rest room, you can do so. Let's see 17. We can come back by 322. Now handbook? Blaster? Now Altcoins are in the Corporate Union? Yes, it's on the way. So, this week you won't be up till this week. So, you will be up till this week. Yes, basically we are working here, with that builder's a part of the syllabus. Let's get back. Any questions still now in the merge part like till the time we're kind of dropping in everything? Any questions in that folks? If no questions see, now you have the merged dataset. There's a homework assignment that we have created. You need to answer basically three questions. Calculate the profit and loss. Convert revenue values into millions of USD for better visibility. Top performance. I identify the top five most popular movies or the directors with the highest average revenue. How will you do that by the way? How will you do that? How will you do that? Sorting. So there's a function called sort. There's a function called sort. You'll have to look up. Go to the documentation. Sort for sort. Yeah, sorry. The function is sort values. Not sorted. The function is sort values. Yes. So this is a function called sort values. So you have to use this function. Read the documentation. How does that work? There are some examples given. Infer from this and try to answer these questions. Is this clear? Any doubts in this? There's a solution not to also given. This is a post read. Do it after the session because it has a lot more information. You can read this and then try to attempt this as well. That is also fine. This has a lot more functions usage. So quick ways. How to filter those records where movies are released in the year 2015, 16 or 12. So how will you filter it? There are three choices given to you. So you need to filter movies that are released in the 15, 16 or 2012. Which function or which syntax do you think is correct? Everyone. The first the first option using God is in function. So this should be the right answer. Is this clear? Now let's come to this function called applying. Let's take a look at the data. Let me clear and again. You see the column called gender here. I want to kind of replace male with one and female with zero. How can we do that? Let's take a look. So this process is known as categorical encoding. So all the string value, the categorical values will be encoded into numerical values. So you see I have created a function called encode. It's simple if else statement. If it asks if the data is male, then return zero else return one. That means encode male to zero. Wherever you see male, replace it with zero and wherever you see female or if you don't see male, you replace it with one. Now I have applied this using the dot apply function. I have taken the column data dot gender and apply what? Apply this rule. Apply this function which is encode. Once you run that, let me run this and then this. Now you see wherever it was male, it became zero and wherever it would have been female, it became one. So let's look at the row which is the solo number. 1, 4, 6, 4. Yeah, the gender for this is, this has been over it and we will take it. Never mind. Let's quickly do this again. I just see what happened. It was not actually female. It was NAN. Do you see the problem with this then? Wherever the gender is non-male, whether it is female or whether it is some other value, it is treating it as one. So how do I fix this? Anybody has any thoughts? How do I fix this? Yes. Instead of Ls, I can simply do Lf. Data equal to female. Ls I can simply say return not matching something like this. Not found. So I will have to re-run everything because it got over it and then. So now you see, we can see not found here. Instead of female, instead of one, we are seeing that not found. Is this clear how you can apply any function? I think it is clear. Can you tell me one thing? Can you? Let's try to encode the day into numerical values. I want to encode days in this order. If it is Monday, then it should be encoded as zero. Tuesday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Thursday, 3, Friday, 4, Saturday, 5 and Sunday, 6. How can I do that? How will I do that? Tell me how can I do that? What is the first step that I need to do? Okay. First step is saying create a function. We can call it encode days. We can take input as data. So what is the condition that I should write inside the function? Tell me what is the condition that I should write? If data equal to Monday, then return zero. Lf, data equal to Tuesday, return one. Similarly, I can do it for all. Any questions in this folks? I can do it like for all the days and what is the next step that I need to do? Sorry? Apply it. I can say data.dataofday.apply.nquadase. That's all. That's all you need to do and you should get the numerical representation. Is this clear? Any confusion in this? Straight forward, create a function and then simply apply it. Cool. Okay. So this is something that are usually defined function. You can also apply other type of functions like which are predefined. Let's say np.sum. What does np.sum do? Simply does the addition? Now if I want, there are two columns. Revenue and budget. Let's look at only these columns. Revenue, budget. Now when I do dot sum, dot apply np.sum, what does it? What does it give me? What do you think it gives? When I applied np.sum, what has happened to this dataset? What has happened? Some of all the revenue and some of all the budget. But what if I want to add revenue and budget? This value plus this value. Right now it is kind of collapsing everything into single output. Right? Just taking a vertical sum of it or horizontal sum of it. But what if I want to add the corresponding revenue and budget? Column is already added? Yes. So there is a parameter called axis. What should be axis for adding column wise? So now you see when I pass axis as one, it is kind of adding these revenue and budget side by side. Is this clear? By default it takes axis as zero. So that's why if you remove it, if you remove it or if you do axis zero, it will give you the previous values which is the horizontal sum. Is this clear? Any doubts in this? Any questions? So you can read about the importance of axis parameter in the description is given here in detail. Cool. Let's try to find the profit per movie. So what is profit? Sale minus cost. I can do revenue minus budget, right? Where is the budget? Go. Revenue minus budget. So I have created a function called profit or profit and I am passing it on a value called x. And I am simply doing x revenue minus x budget. So when I do this, what happens? So how does Python interpret it? Let's take a look. What do you understand by x? Like it says x, you know. So what is how does Python treat x? See, so according to Python x means each row. When you do this apply, x means each row. So this is x. This is x. So when x is zero or the first row, it is going to subtract this value minus this value. Then for the next value, row is going to do this minus this. So it will give you a row level output. When does this happen? When you give axis equal to one. Is this clear? Is this understood to everyone? So now you try to do this task. Now that you have seen how to use apply for encoding and calculating profit, let's try to do another transformation. Let's create a new column called is successful. This column should be a Boolean, true or false, okay? Indicating whether a movie made profit, that is profit greater than zero. Then finally display the title, revenue, budget, profit and is successful. How can you do that? How can you do that? Whether the movie is successful or not? Yes. So what is the first step that I can do? Everybody, what is the first step that I can do? We can create a function, DF, check if successful, something like this. What is the condition that I need to put? If x of profit is greater than zero, that's all. If this is true, then return true, and you return false. Now what's the next thing? I simply apply this function, apply to what? Apply to which column? To which column should this function be applied to? Profit. So we created this column called profit. Now so we apply it, check if possible. Let's run this. One second. Okay, sorry. Profit is not different, okay? I can even figure out why am I getting this error? Can anybody think why am I getting this error? Did I miss out on any parameter? Sorry? No, look at this. Look at the previous function. Here. Did I pass the parameter? Which parameter is passed here, but is not passed in the next case? Look again. Sorry? Which data, what do you mean by data? This part already handles that. No, this x profit. So it automatically understand which column to apply to. What is the default axis value that Python takes? What does he mean? Is there any row that is named profit? Is there any row that has the name profit? What has what is the name profit in a column? So I need to pass axis as one. Now you see I get true and false blah blah blah. I can set it as a name is successful and just equated. This can be one way. Is everybody aware of lambda functions? Can you create a lambda function for it? I don't want to write check if successful. I don't want to write these three lines. How can I use the lambda function here? Can anyone think of a lambda function? That does the same thing. Any idea that checks whether the profit is greater than zero or not? Anyone? Okay. Okay, what is the first step? What is what do I start the lambda function? I simply write lambda. Then I take the variable. Yeah. What's next? Yes, what do we want to implement? Tell me. So what should be the condition? X of profit. Yes or no? So only if I do this part, you should see that I will get the same output. So I can instead of writing this whole block of code, I can do just one line. So that's using the lambda functions. So that's what I've done here. So lambda x, x greater than zero. Whether it's true, you'll get true. If it's false, you'll get false. Then finally, we're displaying the top 10 rules. Where the is not a problem. Is this clear? Anybody has any questions? So now you can tell which movie was successful, which movie was not successful. Right? Let's look at aggregation. Okay. So we use a method called group by. So group by method is one of the most powerful and frequently used functions in pandas. It allows you to group rows together based on volume values in one or more columns. So let's try to look at this way. Let's come here. Can anyone, okay, we were discussing Duranda right. So let's say I have two rows for the Render. Zero, one movie title is Duranda. Zero, two. Movie title is Duranda, two. ID title and profit. Let's say the profit was 100k here or 100,000. Random values. 200,000. So if I ask the question, how much money, how much profit did the whole Duranda franchise make? So what will be your answer? This plus this. So that means I am interested in aggregating these rows into single row. I can say Duranda, profit 300k. Right? So let's say both the movies have the same ID because they're part of the same franchise. So what I can do is I can group by ID. Group by the ID column. And do what? Some of profit. I can do profit. Dot sum. So you will see the syntax. But what is, what am I doing at an aggregate level? I am grouping by the ID and simply taking the sum of this column yes or no. Both these column have the same ID, no. So I can say for ID, zero, one, the total profit is 300k. Let's look at it. So what all statistics we can calculate? We can calculate the mean value. We can calculate some mean max count. They can be a lot more others. But we look into these for now. So what is the first step? I am kind of what I'm trying to analyze. So let's begin by data grouping data frame by director name. So let's say this is my data. So I have a column called director name. So when I do a data group by director name, this creates a data frame group by object. So this is a group by object. Now I can use this to do multiple operations. Okay. Now I can answer the question which director made up, like for every director what is the profit that they made? Can I do profit dot sum? Now this tells me how much profit is Adam Mecha made? How much profit did Adam Shaqman make? Is this clear? I group by director name and simply took the profit of it. Some of it. Yes or no? But is some the right metric? What else I can look at? What would be a better? They are not. Maximum is 3k, but average. Average can tell me a better view. Like it could be a case, you know that some of the values could be really high. Plus also let's say there could be a director. Who has just done one movie? Who has just done one movie? And it made a million dollars. Right? It could be a case that they have made a million US dollars. But there can be a second director. Who has done 500k? For let's say 10 times. And in the second movie, this made zero US. It could be a case that the second one is more consistent director while the first one is just was a one-hit wonder. So it doesn't make sense to directly take a sum. We can take a mean for a better aggregate. There's some connectivity issue. But yeah, you can take mean using dot mean function. Is this clear? Very simple syntax. I'm using the group by function. The variable that I want to group by on and the variable that I want to aggregate upon. Is this clear? Yes or no? So there's one more thing that I can do. Dot n groups. This tells me the number of groups that I have. So there are total. 199 unique directors that I have in the data set. Distinct unique directors. If you do dot groups, you'll see the exact data that we have. So Adam McK, row number 176, 323, 366. So basically this director is present in these row values. This director is present in these row values and so on so forth. Then this function called get group. If I want to access any particular group or any particular director, I can do a get group and name of the group. Right. If you want, let's say you want to do Adam Shankman. You can do a dot get group and pass the name of the director. You see you'll get all the increase for Adam Shankman. For all the movies that Adam Shankman has directly. Is this clear? Any questions, any doubts in this? Any doubts? There was one more quiz. Where did that go? One second. So after this. Okay. Next thing what we're doing is I want to find how many movies that each director has directed. So can I take the count of the title? Can I simply take the count of the title? This will tell me how many movies is directed as directed? Achar. Now this one thing. We did two different things. First we saw how much profit did every director made? How much movies did each director kind of direct? But these are two separate data frames. Right. Wouldn't it be nice if we kind of clapped them or brought them into one single data frame? Like right now, there's just one column called title. I add one more column called profit. So that every information is in the same data frame. I don't want to create data frames again and again. For this, there's a function called aggregate or dot AGG. So here I could have simply done data. Group by director name. And instead of simply being profit, dot mean or title.count, I could have said dot aggregate. And inside this, I can pass a dictionary or dot AGG. Where this is let's say title, count, profit dot sum. So you see, within the same data frame, I'm getting the title as well as the profit. What did I do? I simply pass the AGG function. And inside this, I pass a dictionary of what all statistics do I want to extract. For title, I want the count, for profit, I want the sum. If you want mean, you can say mean also. So you'll see, you'll get the mean values. Is this clear? There's one more function called aggregate. This tells me within the same column, if I want multiple values. Like right now, we did two separate columns, right? If I want to do the minimum profit, the maximum profit and the average profit. Then I can use the aggregate function. Here, what all stats? I can pass. I can pass. Mean. I can pass. Max. I can pass. I can pass. Some. I can pass. Mean. Mean. So you see, within the safe table, I have multiple statistics. Is this clear? Any questions in this? Anyone? Any doubts in this index? Yeah. It's the same thing. Alternated. You can use either of the two. If you see the difference that I've showed, here, I have passed a dictionary. So here, I am taking two different columns like title and the profit and extracting different statistics. For title, I'm looking at the problem. So how I increase for profit and give it a mean value. But on the other hand, if you look at the second case, second case for the same value, for the same column. In the previous case, you have two columns, title and the profit. Here, I have just one value profit. And I'm extracting multiple stats, minimum value, maximum value, sum of any. So in the previous case, there were two different columns with different statistics. It's just one simple column with multiple statistics. Is that clear? Any other question, anyone? Any other doubt? Cool. Similarly, I'm doing a year, like Min and Max, which was the first movie, like in which year did I direct the first movie, and in which year did I direct them, last movie, till the last movie. So, main year and the maximum year. What else I can find? Can anybody think what else, what other stats, aggregated stats I can find? Look at the data set. Tell me some kind of information that I can extract by aggregating at director level. What other information can I find about a director? So we found the minimum maximum profit they made, number of movies that are directed, when did they start, when did they end? Any other stats that you can figure out? The actor column is there, other columns are there. Think of any other metric that you can calculate. Can anyone think? Sorry? What for his movie? Median. Median of what? Of the? Of the? Okay. So earnings is done. Anything else other than earnings? Go on, who said that? Yeah, please go on. Can we direct, can we figure out the popularity of the movies directed by each director? How will I do that? There is a column called popularity, then I have director's name. Can I find something like, average popularity for each director? What should I write after this? Popularity. So, this tells me that Adam McKay had a minimum popularity of 12 and a maximum popularity of 57 with an average of 30.33. Similarly, look at this. Can I also add count? Let's also add count. This gives me much better picture. So, I have a lot of different director. They have directed six movies. And out of those six, like the minimum that is average, it's 13 and the maximum that their head is 100. So, very high standard deviation, right? So, starting from 13, it can go as high as 100. So, a lot of skew is present. So, what can you tell about this director? Should I consider this director for potentially directing my movie? Yes, I can say that this director is not very consistent. So, I might stay away from it. Yes or no? So, that's how in size you can extract by looking at these tables. Any doubts, any question? So, one quick note, you can use anything or anything, both are the same. It's the same different names. Any questions? Okay. So, now, if things are clear, can you answer these questions? Find the director name with the highest total revenue. Can you find the director with the highest total revenue? What is total revenue mean? Some of revenue, okay. How will you do that? I have to say, how will you reach this? What is the first step that you will do? How will you solve this problem? What is the step that you will be? Okay, group by director name, what's next? So, let's go here. So, first thing that you are saying is, group by director name, then, then do aggregation. Aggregation on what? Aggregate revenue and find what? Find some, okay. Then, then you will solve. Then, how will you get the first value? Head, what should have passed inside head? Is this clear to everyone? So, we will do these five steps to reach the answer. Any questions in this is approach. So, what are we doing first? We are finding the first, open the data by director name. Why? Because the question asked me, find the director name with the highest total revenue. So, first thing that I am doing is, group by director name. Then, it asked me to find the total revenue. So, I am doing, in the AGG I am passing the total revenue parameter as revenue and some. Either I can do this or I can pass the dictionary. I can pass this dictionary as well, the same thing. I can do the same thing. So, I said, what is total revenue? Revenue and the function. That is some. Okay. So, let's forget about these two because they are for the second question, second and third. So, once you have that, let's forget this for now. So, once you have that, what are we doing? We are doing dot sort values. What the sort value does? Sorting by what column are we sorting? Total revenue. And what is ascending equal to false, the only folks? That sort and descending order, the highest revenue should come first. And then, I am simply doing ahead. I can do one also like for. So, the answer to the question is Steven Spielberg with the highest total revenue. Is this clear? The second question. For the director name, calculate the average vote average and the total number of movies. For this, what we are doing? Average vote. The average of vote average. And the total of the movies. For that, I am simply doing title account. So, you see, I get all the values. Present this in a valid descending order. If you do want to do 10. So, you get descending order of revenue, average vote they have got and the movie count. Is this clear? Yes or no? If you get these kind of questions, will you be able to solve them? Because you are going to get by the way after the class there is assignments. So, you need to do that. He get. Given a data frame of employee rating in four. So, basically you have employee ID and the monthly rating. How to calculate average rating of each employee? Which choice should be the correct? You need to find the average rating for each employee. Which one is the correct syntax? Which one is the correct syntax? Average rating for each employee ID. Last one. Okay. Anywhere else? Okay. So, I have got two answers. C and D. Sorry? C. Okay. So, two people have said C minus ZD. Okay. See only. So, see only. Anybody has any other answer? Okay. See is correct. Let's see why. Let's take a look at all the options one by one. Let's come to the. Okay. So, this is the question. So, let's assume this is my data frame. I have a data frame like this. It has two columns. One is ID and one is monthly rating. So, let's say ID one. ID one again. ID two. ID two. ID two. ID three. 10, 5, 6, 7, 2. Again. So, this is my mock data frame. So, question is asking what is the average rating for each employee? Achab, before doing anything, can you tell me the answer of this question? What will, how many distinct employees have that? So, I have three employees. Can you quickly tell me the average ID, average monthly rating for these three? What is the average monthly rating for them? What is the average monthly rating for employee one? 10 plus 5, 15 by 2, 7.5. What about employee two? 6.5, what about employee three? So, this is the output that I want, right? Yes or no? What is the first code block to? What does this do? If I do this, what will I get? What will I get? I will get a group by object, right? See, when I did this, when I did only group by it, I just got this, you know, pandas.co.group by this tells that it's a group by object. So, similarly, if I do this data or group by employee, it will just give me a group by object. What about this? What is data or group by monthly rating? Another group by object? If I do this, group by employee, it.mean. What does this give me? I will get this. Not exactly. So, how does it know which column to compute the mean for? Have I passed any specific column? We get this will work fine because there are just two columns. But in case there are more than two columns, you should pass specifically the column as well. So, you should pass the column name as well. Here, we should have passed monthly rating, but it is fine because there is only one other column. So, you automatically understand this only one column left. But in case there are more than one, you should specifically pass the column name. So, this will give you this output. What you are looking for? What about this? What about the fourth option? What will this give you? Right. So, it will basically switch the order. Instead of id, your index is now monthly rating. So, how many distinct monthly ratings are there? Five monthly ratings are there? So, you will have 10, 5, 6, 7, 2. What is the average id for it monthly rating 10? 1. What is the average id for monthly rating 5? 1. 6, 2. 7, 2 and 2, 3. So, this is what you will see average employee id. Basically, the reverse, reverse of what you actually wanted. Is this clear? Cool. Yeah. So, I think more or less we are done. We have few things that are left. I think let me quickly check. So, I think mostly we had the group by a part. There are quiz questions. Okay. Now, there is only one section left. We can cover this in the next section, the filter, which is also not very long. Then, before I go, I have two things for you. First, we will answer these quizzes and then we have assignments today. So, you will have to sit for the lab. Everybody can see assignments, yeah. Has the assignment been added? So, you will have those assignments. But before we start that, TGAN. Now, tell me. This is the data. Now, this is the data that we had, right? All the columns that we have different columns. Now, I am doing something like this. Data.GroupID. Name. And simply doing the mean. I am not passing any column. I am simply doing not mean what will be the output. What will be the output? Can anyone tell me what will be the output? I am not passing any specific column. I am not having you not, but I am not dropping. Nothing, just happen. GroupID. Name. What will happen? Sorry? There is no D option. B option. Anyone else? Any other answer? Any other answer, anyone? Everybody is aligned on B. B is the correct answer. So, basically, wherever mean was possible, you will get the values. So, if you do data.GroupID. Name. And what does mean? One second. The reason of data of the fund has library. The reason of data is that the data of the fund has been used in the library. Earlier, it used to work fine. But I guess it is giving you an error now. It says that aggregation function fail. How mean data is object? So, that means it is telling you that you have certain columns that are object type, that are non-numerical. Look at here. You cannot find the mean for them. So, it is giving an error. But assuming had there been all numerical values, then this would have worked fine. But earlier, for non-numerical, it used to work fine. But I think with the recent fund has update, they have removed that. So, it could not convert the string because you have the title. So, that is where you are seeing kind of the first option. Is this clear? Is this clear what happened? Just because it had string values, it gave you an error. Had there been only the numerical values? Just look at this. Like it did a small data frame. With only popularity revenue and director name, it would have worked fine. It says expecting every numerical column. Is this clear? For each year, how will you get the average, lowest and the highest value of movie ratings? Quiz 4. For each year, how will you get the average, lowest and highest value, food daily? Tell me which. Straight forward, right? Average, lowest and highest, which one is giving you? In that particular order. B option, right? Mean, mean and max. Mean, mean and max. The other one are, here is the same option, Gav. Sorry? Backers are different. Okay. Okay. Checking your syntax and understanding that's all. First option is the correct answer. Why? Because group by is a function, it takes round brackets, aggregate function expects a dictionary. So you're passing a dictionary. Here, all those round brackets are there, but it's basically round brackets here as well, which is wrong. In this instead of round brackets, you are seeing square brackets. Is this clear? Anybody, anybody doubts why a option will be the answer? Anywhere has any questions? Cool. Okay. So we are left with only filtering, last part. Go through this. This is very descriptive. I did every detail that could be possible. Explain it very nicely with details, but still we will cover in the next class. I think we will be meeting next Thursday now, right? This is a class in Saturday. Sorry. Okay. So Thursday onwards, you have mid-times. When there is a mid-tum. Okay. So I will make sure that this is not part of the syllabus. Yes. Celebers will be conveyed by end of the day today. But it will be related to Bigger Python and NumPy. And the pandas that we have covered till now. The filtering will not be there till aggregation. It will be asked. Any other questions? Any other questions? Cool. Okay. So let's quickly jump on to the assignments that we have. Can you open the assignments like I am not sure how do I access that, but? Everybody has access to assignment, right? They are locked. I need to unlock them. Okay. One second. I have done assignments. I have done homework. This is not present. Why is that? Okay. I will see here. Let me check with the team. You can see there are few questions. Sorry. Who is at third? Is it a third here? Is it a third here? Sorry. Sorry. I missed a question. It is. If each title is present one time, then how? So which regarding which it was your question, like what topic? Is it clear now? Sorry. I can't hear you. Okay. Okay. Hello? Hey, I am worth the assignments added. It shows. I am going to read the last one. It is like 2 to 4 and then there is a lab for one hour. Should I end the class or what should I wait? You You