Cool, is everybody in or are we expecting more? I can see a lot of empty spaces. How many students do you have in your batch? Are there bars or bar bar? I get two degrees right now. Is that twenty-five degrees, 1, the bar in limit ahead is hand out, 0, which is the Cool, let's wait for a few minutes, let everyone come and then we will get started. So here is Pugal, our main character. Okay, let me start. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . market? It is not advertised and it will be notOT, when it college and when it needs mia parfait. Cool, I will be back for the new mic here. I will take a look after that, after the class. Okay, folks, I will be back in a moment, right? I will be back, let me change the microphone. Everyone, there will be no one, they will be only in one way or let's go. No, they will wait, to all be welcome, to all of them, later on, be able to be possible. We are able to be able to move to any other simply chat rooms, to all, you will see thing for when we first have this conversation. scientist at one page. My day-to-day jobs are building machine learning, recommendation models for our customers so that they get more personalized experience. For example, like we try a key or certain app behavior, whatever transactions we're making on our application, based on that we will recommend your products so that you make more transactions and give us more money, right? So that's how we operate at one page. And that's a brief about myself. I have over four years of experience in data science, AIML and analytics and I've been associated with scalar across various rules as a remote instructor and now as a physical instructor at your scalar school of technology and I will be taking your batch for this course, data analytics 101. So how many of you have experienced with Python before? Quite a few. That's great. But don't worry, we'll start from basics. Those who have overseeing for the first time or will be learning Python for the first time. We'll take it from scratch, we'll take it from the basics so that nobody has any issues. So, before I proceed, anybody has any questions? I was planning a quick introduction but there are too many students so I think in the interest of time, we'll directly get started. So I'll give you a quick overview of the format. So whatever we will be studying, we'll try to use some kind of business logic or business intuition behind what you are studying right because at the end of the day whatever solutions you will be building, you will be building to benefit a business. So it's always very important to have an understanding how your solutions are going to help the business. Everybody can hear me now. Better? Is it better? Maybe there are a lot of MTCs why I don't do kind of come ahead. How about now? Better? Anyone who is not able to hear me at the back? Everybody comfortable? Thank you. Take it. Sorry folks, again logistic issues. Let's get started. So we'll be studying Python for data science and we'll be taking retail analytics as a case study. So what is retail? Yeah. Sorry. Oh, okay, sure. I'll present here as well. Cool. Everybody can see now on their apps as well. Perfect. Okay. So I'll share the notebook as well towards the end. So the goal of this notebook. Okay, first of all, does everybody know how to set up a Google Kula? Is there anyone who doesn't know how to do that? Please tell me if there's anyone I can show you. So last class you did with? Okay, last time. Okay, then that's great. I hope now we should be good with the logistics and everything. Cool. Coming back to the topic, Python for data science. So we will start beginner Python or the basics of Python and try to include some kind of a business case right along with it. For example, the first thing that we're going to do is learn about the print statement. So everybody, I think it's pretty intuitive what print does right? So it's just displays things right? So what's the purpose of that right? If you look at the business intuition like, so if you have certain data right, if it's can contain in your system, contain in your laptop right? It's directly not helpful to the business. You might need to present your output, present your data to a business manager or someone who will be taking decisions based on whatever you are, whatever you have created. But for that, you'll have to take the data out of your system and present it to someone else. And how you can do that? You can use a print statement for that. So if you let's say you want to build a report, print statements could be pretty handy there. So very simple use case. So as said print, welcome to the EcoStyle inventory dashboard and the report date is 2023 1027. So it's just a way to kind of let you know what we are going to present or what is the content of your data or content of your output. Here it's the welcome message to a dashboard and then the at what date we have generated this report. Everybody knows what a dashboard is. So basically a dashboard is what do you say? It's a kind of a screen, right? It's a screen that shows you various kind of metrics, information related to certain aspects of your business, right? For example, sales, right? This is your, let's say time, water, water, water, water, two, quarter three, so forth. And this is your sales, right? This dashboard can show your house, your sales, I'm up, right? Similarly, it could be loss, right? Water again, loss, right? Let's represent loss in red and it's going down quarterback, right? So with the dashboard, you can represent various kind of information in more intuitive and in such a way that it's helpful for your non-technical stakeholders to understand what's going on in their business. So that's what generally a dashboard is helpful for. But here, a print statement just simply helps you print what you want to display, something like that. Any questions? Any questions, anyone? Pretty straightforward. Okay, cool. One more thing, there can be multiple ways you can represent a string. One way is to use double quotes, right? You can put piece of text in double quotes and Python interprets it as a message, a string, right? And not a command. There's alternate way as well. You can use single quotes as well. So if I want to print the same command with a single quote, right? I can do that. So that's how you'll do manually. But generally, as you might have been noticing around you, things are moving fast and genie-i tools are kind of taking over, right? So now usually you do not write code in the industry and rather you use genie-i tools. So very simple, how would I use a genie-i tool to do the exact same thing what I did manually, like a print command? Very simple right now, but we'll see more complex cases as well. Can you see this gemini at the bottom? It helps me toggle the gemini and now you see a new tab that has been opened for gemini. Now I can use it to kind of write code as well. So let's say I want to tell it, I want to write a print command that welcomes the user to our dashboard. Let's say EcoStyle Inventory dashboard. So let's see what it does. It's working. So as you already have a print command, would you like to modify or add another one? Let's say add another one. So I asked it to, so you see it added another print command. So I didn't write code for it. I just simply prompted a genie-i tool and asked it to do it for me. So that's how kind of industries moving in this direction where you use more and more of genie-i tools to do more work at a higher speed, right? So you see we get roughly the same output. So in this course I'll try to first show you how do you do it in a traditional way and then how you can solve the same case using genie-i tools. Does that make sense? Perfect. So let's move to the next topic. It's variables. You can intuitively think it as a storage bin, right? Like for example if you are, right? Let's say you're working at a warehouse, right? What happens in a warehouse? You have multiple products and you have designated boxes for it, right? Let's say we are working at warehouse for delivery. Delivery is a company that ships products to you from various clients, right? So let's say there's a container called shoes. Now you would want to put all your shoes related products in this container, right? Similarly there can be a different container for let's say electronics, right? And you would want to put all your electronics in this container. So that's the same analogy that we write for variables. Okay, so imagine you're in a warehouse, you then just throw items on the floor. You put them in designated label, bins as we just saw. So variables are similar in labels for bins in the computers memory. So let's say if there's a value called 24.99, right? It's the price of a product, right? So you just don't randomly let it be. You don't randomly let 24.99, right? We'll kind of store it in a variable. Let's call it product price. So now this product price variable stores this value called 24.99. So if I come back here, so I've created a variable called product price, right? And you're 24.99 should decide it. Technically it's not inside this box, it is actually pointing it to 24.99, but think I will come to that later. But intuitively you can understand that now you have placed this value 24.99, let's say rupees, rupees is very small value, let's say dollars 24.99 dollars and now you have put it in its container that is labeled product price. So that's what actually variables to you can store information in designated places. Is that clear? Any questions, anyone? Cool. There are two variables that are created, one for product name, anyone? Is that a question? Sorry. Okay. Cool. So we have two variables, one is product name and one is product price. The first one holds the name of the product. It's an organic cotton t-shirt and then there's a price for the 20.99. And we are then simply printing it and as you can see the output to organic cotton t-shirt 24.99. Now if I ask you a question, if I want to use Gemini for it, writing the exact same code, what should I tell it? Anybody? What should I ask if I want to replicate the same code? How can I do it with the help of Gemini? Sorry. What should I say? Can you be a little louder? Yeah, please go on. Okay. Initialize to variables. Let's call them product name and product price. What's next? What should I tell it? What value should I pass? What should I tell what value to pass in it? Right. So I can say pass the following values to each. Let's say organic cotton t-shirt. I accidentally pressed enter. Let's redo this. Each organic cotton t-shirt and 24.99. Print them as well. Let's see. The variables and then print already. Can you add again? So you see it's already aware what is already present in your system. So that's why it's nudging me. That's why it's kind of nudging me and asking it. That if I want to add again. Has it added? Not yet. I can't see it in my notebook. Let's wait. It's working on it. It should be located. Has it added? Let's reload once. I see. I see. Wow. It didn't add it. Okay. Anyway, I must have done some glitch. But yeah, you understand the point how you can use Genie II to integrate this. Right. Cool. There's a small exercise that I added. Change the product price to 19.99 and print it again. And it's asking you to change it to sales price. Like the name to sales. How would you do it? How would you do it? Let's say if you want to create a new variable sales price and add a value to it, how will you do it? Anyone? Sorry. You'll create a variable and simply assign a value 19.99 into it. Straight forward, right? So you created a variable called product price. You can call it sales price if you want. And add 19.99 to it and just simply print it. Is this clear to everyone? Anybody is having any confusion? Straight forward, right? So that's how we'll move. We'll take the difficulty. It's difficult to be slowly. We'll keep today's session very late. Okay. Next basic thing that you should be aware is about data types. There are multiple data types. String integer flow. It's complex. Complexes. I will not discuss that. But string integer flow. It's for now. Now, what is the purpose of each of them? You might be aware that there can be different type of values. One can be a sentence, right? Which will you call string? One can be a simple integer law code. That is what? Minus infinity to plus infinity. And then there can be floating points, which is your decimal So we have separate data types and Python to handle each kind of such values. For example, if this is what I'm dealing with, welcome to the course data analytics. Let me call it d8.01. So now, what data type is it? By the results? What data type is it? Okay. What is this? Is this sentence, right? So when you are dealing with sentences or anything that is related to text, that's called string data type. And if you are dealing with integers, for example, minus 3, minus 99, 12, 15, 102. These are integral values, right? So what's the data type for this? It's int. What about decimal points? It's a 3.2. 0.001. 0.25. These are decimal values or we call them float. Is this clear to everyone? Achartistist here can anyone tell me what will be this? It's in quotation marks. What data type is it? Why? But I've written a number inside it. Why is it string? Yes. So if even a integer, if I even a number or a floating point or a decimal value is inside these double quotes, either in double quotes or single quotes or even in triple quotes, then even if it's a number, Python treats it as a string. Is this clear to everyone? Any questions? Cool. A small showcase of how do you represent various data types? I created a variable. Let's call it customer email. And then I've added a sample or a random email to inside quotation marks. Then quantity purchase, that's it, 0.001. So now you notice one thing. I'm trying to introduce some kind of a real world business project. So we are working on a retail company. Retail company that generally sells products. It could be anything. It could be your G, Omar, it could be playing catering. It could be your offline stores. So when you buy a product, you usually enter your email. So when you log in, let's say you log in in flip card, log in in mint trap, you log in with your email. So it tracks your email. So you have your customer email. Let's say you bought something and there's a quantity of how much you bought. Like let's say you want to get on a blanket and you're purchasing chips. You've got three packets of it. So the quantity is three. And how much tax do we need to pay on that product? That's the tax rate. That's going to be charged in the customer usually with GST or different kind of tax rates. So what's the tax rate? 0.08. That is 8%. And we're simply printing it. One more thing. We're doing a small operation here. Small operation here. It's called multiplication. So what am I doing? quantity purchase multiplied by 25. So why? Like what does this two books? What do you think what is happening here? What is happening here? Total before tax quantity purchasing to 25. What are we calculating here? Any thoughts anyone? Sorry. Total price, right? So let's say if the price of your item is price of your item is 25. Price is 25 rupees. And I'm purchasing a quantity three. Then how much am I spending in total? If the price of one product is 25, already I have about three items. How much I spend I'm spending in total? 75. How did he calculate that? By multiplying these two items, price multiplied by quantity, right? That's what we are doing. 25 multiplied by three. So exactly that's what happening here. quantity purchase multiplied by 25. 25 would be the price of the item. As I've right now I have quoted it 25.0. If I want to use a variable in place of 25, what will I do? How should I do that? Yeah. So we should kind of create a variable. Let me call it price and set its value as 25.0. Now can I safely replace 25 with price here? Right? Can I do this? quantity multiplied by price? Let's also see the difference in output. Let's say I printed here and let me also print the total before tax. Right? So it says 75. If I had instead done this, hard-coded value, then also I would have received the same output. So that means we can do this, we can create a variable and store its value and then use that variable. So that is another advantage of variable. Right? I can use this price variable anywhere in the code down the line. Let's say I've written a thousand line code and I want to use this variable again in 1000 and 1.000. I can do that because I've stored it in a variable. Once you have stored something, you can utilize it or you can use it later on whenever you want. So that's another advantage of using variables. Is that clear to everyone? So right now we're calculating total before tax. So quantity purchase multiplied by price. If I have to also take in to account the tax rate, then my how would my price change? Let's say I want to calculate total after tax. How will you focus to it? Let's say right now I'm doing this, right? Total underscore before tax, right? I am doing quantity multiplied by price. Let's say I want to take into account tax also. Tax rate is 0.08, total after tax. How should I do it? How should I do it? Add voting then. Not really. Anyone else? So I'm charging 8% so the government is charging 8% tax on the total purchase. So how will you calculate it? So what you're saying total before tax? Total before tax. Okay watch what I did next. Plus tax rate multiplied by total before tax. Is this clear to everyone? Anybody has any confusion? So this is how much tax I am paying to the government. This is the tax. Is this clear? Anyone has any confusion? If this single one please ask. I want this session to be engaging. As you don't want people who are studying in front to answer all the questions. Okay. So if it's clear, let's try to implement it in code as well. Let me quickly print the tax rate. So this is your tax rate. Right? 0.08 or 8% so if I want total after tax, I need to do. I need to simply execute what we just wrote. Right? Total you see it was auto completing it as well. Total before tax plus total before tax multiplied by tax rate. Yes or no? Right? So before tax it was 75 rupees. Now it's 81 rupees. Is this clear to everyone? You can simplify this as well. You see total before tax combined in both the terms. Like here it's also total before tax. Can I take total before tax comment? Can I take it out? Now when I take it out, what am I left here? What am I left here? 1. Okay. Plus what am I left in this term? Tax rate? So you see I can represent this equation this way as well. It should be multiplying here. You see I'm getting the same value. Is this clear to everyone? Anybody has any confusion? I can store it in a variable. Total let's call it alternate. Okay? And if I want I can print it as well. Yes or no? Cool. Any questions anyone? Okay. Now slightly increasing the complexity a bit. Let's look into data structures. Right? Now we learned about variables that only allowable store single value. In tax rate I'm able to store only single. In let's say product rate, we saw something like product name. We saw cotton t-shirt something like this. Right? Only single value. Right? What if there are multiple products? What if there are more than one product? Can I store multiple products in this variable? This way? Not exactly. So we just a string, we just a string single string I can store only single value. Right? It's a single value. But what if there are multiple products? Let's say there is cotton t-shirt. Right? Then there is shoes. Right? Then there is let's say tie. If I want to kind of store all of them in a single variable, how do I do that? I can utilize data structures for that. So one of such data structures is for lists. Pretty intuitive by the name you can store list of items in a list. Right? What is list? You are allowed to store list of items. So right now product name was a single string. Right? I can create a new variable. Let's call it product underscore names in a plural sense. Right? So how do I initialize a string? How do I create a list? Sorry. So I create square bracket. I start the square bracket and then I can start entering my values. It's a cotton t-shirt. Now you see the n and n I close the square bracket. Right? Within a single structure, I have introduced three different items. Still stored in one single variable. Is this clear? So this is the application of list. You can store a collection of objects. Collection of objects. One important property, these collections, these items can be of different data types as well. Right now all of them are string, right? Everybody agrees? This is a string. This is a string. This is a string. Yes or no? If I want to create different data type objects, like for example cotton t-shirt is a string, right? If I want to add integral value, two, if I want to add a flotal value, 13.2, that is also possible in a single list. Within a single list, I have created, I have entered three items, each of them are of different data types. Is this clear to everyone? So that is also possible in this. Right? Let's quickly jump to code. So a simple definition, single variables are fine for my item, but business deal with collections, right? Multiple items. That's what we just saw. People can buy multiple products. So what is a list? A simple order sequence. They can be read as well. They have created a simple list called categories. And I have showed three values, apparently home and beauty. So there are multiple categories that you can drop on, let's say, an e-commerce website. These are some of these categories. We'll come to the next two data structures as well, but let's also look at some of the functionalities that I can try out in a list. So how many items do you see in this list? Three. How do I identify that? Left of that. So there's a function called LEM, right? What does this tell me? By the way, what's the function? Does anybody know what's the function? What's the function, folks? Those who are shredded by item? Right. A function is a block of code that executes a certain task, right? Sorry, my handwriting is very bad. Please spare me. So length is one such function. What is the task it executes? What is the task that length executes? Size of the list or number of items in the list or whatever I say. That's exactly what length is, right? So if I have created a list called product names, I can just wrap it inside a function called LEM, and this should give me the number of items in the list. That is three. That is one function. Welcome to functions. Welcome to functions is well doing worry. So very quick introduction about lists. Is this clear? Any questions? Anyone? Are you sure? Should we move ahead? If there's anyone, please, please feel free to stop in the name there. No question is a stupid question. That's what I believe in. So, if you do ask anything. Coming back to a different data section, let's look at tuples, right? I say, what is tuples? Those who have studied, I think. What's a tuple? Mutable. Mutable. Mutable. Mutable. Mutable. Mutable. What does mutable mean? Right. So same, very similar to list, but a few differences. It's also an audit sequence. What does an audit sequence mean by the way? So, I can access the 11 bias index. So basically, whatever in whatever order I enter the value, it stays in that position. Like for example, here, a list is also ordered. So at what position did I enter? I entered it in the first position and Python, you call it the zeroes position because zero means indexing. So it's going to stay in this position until I explicitly updated. Similarly, this is at the first position, this is at the second position. So it's going to stay in its respective position the way we entered it. That's what an audit sequence means. And as you mentioned, we can access it with the help of this position or you call this index. Similarly, it's another audit sequence, but the thing is it's immutable. What does the word immutable mean? Something that cannot be mutated or something that cannot be changed. Is this clear to everyone? So, tuple is an audit sequence that cannot be changed. And the syntax for that is whatever you name or want to give to the variable, let's say product and let's go over tuple. Instead of square bracket, I take a round bracket. Okay. Now I can enter various values, whatever I enter here. So you see I have entered two values, latitude and longitude. So store location. This one represents your latitude and the other one represents your longitude. Both of them are fluid. Is this clear? Is this clear to everyone? The tuple is any question? Okay. Those movements are believed with me that tuple is immutable together. We'll come to that later. One more thing, one more thing folks. In Python, although these are data structures, but Python also calls them user-defined data types. User-defined data types. So this is a function called type that tells you the data type of your variable. So if you put it inside, if you put a variable inside this type function, it tells its data type. So let's say if I run this and if I say type of categories, what should I see? What should I see? Yeah, who said that? Yeah. So when I say type category, it will tell me the data type of the variable categories and the data time of the variable is list. It says list, right? It says list. So the data type is list. That's why we call them user-defined data types. Any questions anyone? Any questions anyone tell now? Okay. One more thing that I wanted to discuss. Inside the list, let's call it L1. So one thing I mentioned that it can have multiple data types, right? A list can have multiple data types and we just learned that list itself is a data type, right? So can I put another list inside a list? Everyone? So we discussed that inside a list, I can store multiple data types and here we saw, here we saw that list itself is a data type. So that means I can store a list inside a list. So a list allows me to store a list inside a list or a tuple inside a list. So I can store different data structure inside a list. So I can store another list that's L2, right? Let's say L1 is 1, 2, 3, 4 and L2, right? And L2 itself is a list, which is 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, so on and so on. So how will I can see this? 1, 2, 3, 4 and actually a list of 1.2, 1.3, 1.4. Is this clear? Clear to everyone? Anybody has any questions? So that is also possible. Now coming to the third data type that we have, that's called dictionary. So what is a dictionary? A dictionary is a key value pair, right? Key value pair. What do I mean by that? In the list, it's called dictionary. Let's take this list again, products, right? Cotton T-shirt. 25, 3. Now what is cotton T-shirt? What is a cotton T-shirt? Anyone? It's a product, right? What is 25? It's a price. What is 3? It's a quantity. I can tell it because in the previous exercise, we wrote the product name as cotton T-shirt, price. So 25 and quantity was 3. But directly looking at the list, am I able to identify what each of them represent? Just by looking at this list, forget about what you know about it. Forget, let's say you don't have this information. Now just by looking at it, can you identify the cotton T-shirt you should identify as a product? But can you identify what is a quantity and what is a price? Just by looking at it, you cannot identify that, right? So this is where a dictionary comes handy, right? I can create a dictionary out of it. I can call it product dictionary, right? And how do I create it with curly brackets? So I start with a curly bracket and the general syntax is that you enter a key, cool in and it's corresponding value. That's the syntax and then you close the curly brackets. So if I have to create a dictionary out of this product, what should be the first key that I should enter? What should be the first key? Product name. I can see product name and what should be its value? Cotton T-shirt? Yes or no? No. Right? Then let's say the next value is price. 25, then quantity, right? 3. Now from this data structure, I can identify what value represents what? Right? Because I have specifically given them keys. Is this clear? Is the application of dictionary clear to everyone? Anybody has any question? Let me take a look at the chat as well here. Why is not, I'm sorry, I didn't take a look. Those who are on chat, are you able to hear? We are able to see the screen and you confirm again? No, I mean those who like, as I see all the same people who have, there's no somebody from home taking, is that can that be the case? Somebody taking from home or whatever you are from, what's the answer? Everything? Okay, let's go. Cool. So any questions in the dictionary? Folks, anyone? Cool. Here you see there's a product info, SKU, T-shirt, color green and stock 1150. This is the inventory details. In how much, like what's the product name? T-shirt, what's the color and how many quantity that you have in your stock in your storage? You have 15 year inventory. Now let's look at, before moving ahead, let's also look at how do you access elements? Indictionary, you see, I can do a square bracket in the name of the key. So that's how I can access the specific value. Let's say if I want to access the price, I can say dictionary name which is product dictionary. And I can mention the key name. So let's say price. So the value that I should see of this should be 25. There's one more way, you can do that. There's one more way you can do that. As a before I come to that, before I come to that, you tell me what should be the output of this. Let's say, you see this dictionary, right? It has SKU, it has color, it has stock level. What if, what if I want to do something like this? If I do, let's say price. What should I get? What should I get the output? There are, anyone else? None. Okay. So I get two responses, there are none. Anyone else? Anything else that you put next to? So you will get error. Why? Because the key doesn't exist. In this dictionary, you don't see the word price. You don't see the key price. But isn't this kind of risky? Let's say, this is, you have already, right? And in production, you don't see this. We just see that there's a dictionary that's called product info. Someone, a third person comes, he or she assumes that it will also have the price, but you don't have that. And when they do this, they kind of get an error. So how to handle this kind of scenario where an unknown value, a key that does not exist, but it's still referenced by someone else. Try catch is one, he can. Any, anyone else? So try it, except, I give it the point that that is possible. Anything else that I can use? Those who are sorry? Exactly. So dictionary has a function called get that allows me to pass a default value. Let's say here I say price. If price doesn't exist instead of erroring out, say not far. So you see now I don't get an error. I simply get not far. Is that clear? So that's how I can do within the dot rate function. Everyone clear with this? Let's also look at this store location. You see it has two value, right? If I want to access any of the value, I can use index for the position. So if I say zero, it says 40.712 it because it says position. Let's quickly come here. So let's say if this is your couple called store location. This is 40.123 and this is minus 42.234. Now what is the position of this value? This position is called the zero index and this position is called the index number one. So in Python, the indexing starts from zero. So if I want to access this value, all I need to do is store location. The name of the top of the list and swear brackets pass its index number. So zero. Is this clear? So I'll get 40.123. But remember one thing I cannot do the same thing here. I cannot do dictionary zero. I cannot do this. So what does this tell me folks? If I cannot do this, what does this tell me about dictionary? Very. So this tells me that dictionaries are unordered. It need not retain the same order in which you enter it. Like let's say you enter it here, but in the back and Python may interpret price coming first in product coming second. So dictionaries are unordered. Is this clear? Is this clear folks? This is one more data structure that I want to tell you and then we can take a small break. So this one more data structure called set. This is also an unordered collection. But it has one very specific property that it only stores unique elements. Now what do I mean by that? Let's say I have a list called L1 and it has these values. 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4. You see it has duplicates. There are two two's. There are two three's. There are two four's. So I can have multiple values. I can have duplicates in a list. But that does not possible in a list set. If I need to create a set out of it, let's say I call S1. First of all I need to do a curly brackets. So it starts how you initialize a dictionary, but you don't give it key value press. Let's say if you say 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4, in the backend what would buy them do is it will remove these duplicates. When you do a print S1, what you will see is a set but only containing unique values. It will automatically drop of these duplicate values. Is this clear? Any questions anyone? So this is called set. One more last thing that you can create one data structure of another data structure. Let's say if you want to create a set out of a list, let's do the same thing. List 1. One, two, three, three, three, four, five. If I say print list 1, we will see everything. But now if I want to create a set out of it, I can simply say set and then pass inside the list one here. I can pass the list inside this. So I'm creating a set out of a list. So this is called explicit type conversion. So I'm creating a different data structure out of a pre-existing data structure. So I can create two print set one. So you see it automatically drops those duplicates. Is this clear to everyone? Any questions anyone? I can also convert data types like string and integers. So let's say for example, D1. This is one. If I want to convert it into a string, can I do that? Okay, one yes, what about others? Can I convert one into a string? Everyone agrees? How do I do that? I simply say STR and then pass in D1. You see now it prints it in quotation values. If you had just printed D1, it prints it without the quotation marks. But here when you convert it into string, you can see the quotation marks. Coming. What about this? Can I... Okay, D2. This is 3.4. What if I do this? What if I do this? What will happen? So you see it converts it into an integer. Why? Because I'm asking it specifically to convert a floating point into an integer. So it will get kind of round off. So 3.4 gets converted to 3. Is that clear? This is called explicit type conversion. So I'm explicitly converting the data time. Is this clear to everyone? Any questions in this? Okay, perfect. So it's 3.9. Let's take a 5 minute break. It's 3.9. Let's come back by 3.14. I'll also take some water. In the meantime, if anyone has any questions, please feel free to ask me. So let's take a 5 minute break quickly. Okay, no questions? Anyone? Okay, if you want to go out, take water. In the next room, please. I'll also be back. Yep. No problem. We'll take it to waste. Cool. Is everybody back? Is everyone back? So let's get back at it. Okay, next we're going to learn about conditional statements. So as the name suggests, we are dealing with certain conditions here, right? Usually we call them if else, no, so basically if certain things happen, then you do a certain way. But if it doesn't happen, then you do it some other way. So that's what we're trying to handle with the help of the conditional statements. For example, if a customer spends $100, you give them a discount. If they don't, then you don't, right? Or you can build tiers of it. Let's say if some spend between $100 or $200, then give them 10%. If someone spends $200 or $300, then give them 15%. So and so forth. So they can mean multiple logics that you can create out of these conditional statements. You might have heard of that using if else, if and else. So basically these statements allow you to think and react to it. So let's say a small business use case, automating a restarting alert. Let's say you're working for Flipkart, right? Flipkart sells multiple products. They kind of or either they have their own inventory or they have sellers on board with them. So let's say they're selling their own products. Now they want to make a decision when to restock. You see the problem with restocking. Let's say you are in a, you have a stock of let's say 10 items. Right? And one day you get eight orders. Right? So eight out of 10 are gone. How many are left? Two items. Now at this point in time, if I don't restock, there is a strong chance that I might not be able to fulfill the orders the next day. And the second days come, let's say you see four, seven orders. Now will I be able to fulfill all the seven orders? Will I be able to fulfill or send you seven orders? I just have two items left. Can I fulfill seven orders? No, right? Because I just have two items left. Think, think, think this way. Let's say Flipkart is selling iPhones, right? Instructions have 10 iPhones, right? Day one, they get 10, eight orders, right? Day one, they got eight orders. So I fulfilled all of those because I can fulfill, I can send eight iPhones out of 10. So now I'm left with two. And day two, I get seven orders. Now I cannot fulfill the orders because I don't have seven iPhones. Yes or no? So at this point, like once I have fulfilled the eight orders, I just two left. I should restock, right? So that for the next day, I have enough to fulfill the orders. Is this clear to everyone? Is the concept of restocking clear to everyone? Any questions, anyone? Now how do I do this using simple conditional statements? I can set up a if statement, I can say if a stock value is less than five. If at any point in time it goes below five, you can say print pre-stop, right? Else you simply say print, sufficient stock. So with the help of these conditional statements, you can, you know, handle business nuances. Is this clear? Is the concept of conditional statements clear? Anybody has any doubts? Anyone? So you see, hell what we are doing? So current stock is eight. And if it's, let's say, if it's less than 10, then I'm going to print stock as no. Else, I'm going to just stock a you can see eight, right? So eight is less than 10? Yes or no? So that means the first condition is fulfilled, first condition is satisfied. So I'll execute the code that is inside this condition, which is alert, stock is low, place and order will be supplier. Let's say this is 15, then what should be the output? Then what should be the output? If it's 15, then and I run this, code what should be the output? Anyone? Stock levels are healthy by it, because it's going to go to the else block. See, is 15 less than 10? Is 15 less than 10? 15 less than 10? So that means this condition is not satisfied. This condition is not satisfied. So once this condition is not satisfied, I'm going to go to the else command, which is and then execute whatever is present in else, right? Stock levels are healthy. What if I want to handle a different cell? Let's say if I want to handle this case, if let's say is stock between 10 and 20, then you print place order for two more items. If it's between let's say 5 to 10, then you place order for 5 items. If let's say it's even less than equal to 5, then you place order for 10 items. If I want to handle this, how can I do this using if nLs? Does anybody has any idea? Can anyone think of a logic? Can anyone think? How will I execute this? Any thoughts? Anyone? And okay? Lf sequence, okay. So see, how will we do? So we will take one condition at a time. So I'm going to start writing nf block, right? Let's say I say if stock and try to code the first condition, what is the first condition? That it should be more than 10, but less than 20. So if stock is greater than 10 and so I simply write and stock is less than 20. So what does I need to do and ensures that whatever is inside the f block gets executed when both these conditions are true. Both should be true. So both of them have to be true, right? Then I say print place order for two items, okay. Then now there's a second condition, I need to handle, right? So for that I can say Lf, Lf means Ls, right? So in Python we simply say Lf. Now what's the condition here? What's the condition here for the second condition? How do I write it? Can anyone tell me? How do I write this? Just the way I written this, can anyone tell me what should come here? Any thoughts, anyone? Right, stock is greater than 5 and stock is less than or equal to. So if the less than sign for than equal to n. Only if both of these conditions are true, then you print place order for five more items. Now how should I handle the third condition? How should I handle the third condition? I can also simply say Ls because in this universe this was one condition, this was and this is everything else, right? This is everything else. Assume that the values cannot go beyond 20. So everything else should be handled with this. So I can simply say Ls, print whatever for 10 items. Is this clear to everyone? Is this clear? Let's also try to write the code for this. So let's just stock level or stock level is 7. If stock level is more than 10 and stock level is less than 20, then you print it's a place order for two more items. Then comes the Lf, stock level is more than 5 but it's less than equal to 10. Then you print place order for five more items and everything else is handled by the Ls command. Stock level, this should be stock level. See if it's two, it's going to say. So see how it operates. So when stock level is two, is this condition satisfied? Is this condition satisfied? Is this condition satisfied? Is two less than 20? This part is satisfied but is two more than 10? Is two more than 10? Yes or no? Two is less than 10, right? So both of these conditions have to be true as we have learned because and once both of them to be true. So if you see, how does Python see? So when you say two, so two greater than 10 and two less than 20. So this is the condition number one, this is condition number two within the same level. So is two less than 10? Python sees it as false, right? Two less than 20. This is true but in between there's an and false and true means false. Why? Because both of them have to be true when you are dealing with an and since one of them is false overall becomes false. So this condition becomes false. So that means we are not going to print whatever is written under it. Let's move here. Is two more than five and less than equal to 10? Is two less than equal to 10? Yes or no? Is two less than equal to 10? But is two more than five? That's no. So that means this is also false and once both of them are false to simply fall back to the else command. That's why you see place order for 10 more items. Is this understood? Okay cool. Let's move to loops. What is the loop guys? What is the loop? Does anybody has any idea? Those who have studied already? Yeah. Okay. So let's say there is a situation. If you want to do some kind of a task repetitively, so in a sales what happens, right? In any business what happens? There are certain products. Let's take the case of this re-stocking as well. So whenever there are multiple orders place, let's say this is my stock. Current level is 10. There comes order number one. Now they place order for two items. How much am I left with? If I sold two items out of 10, how much I left with? I'm left with eight items, right? As per this logic, what should I do? As per this logic, how much should I re-stock? I should re-stock five because eight comes between five and 10. So whenever an order is placed, after that you need to do some kind of re-stock. So re-stock. Second order number two comes, right? Let's say now you have ordered five items, it becomes 30. They order five items. Now 13 minus 5, it's again eight. So you execute the re-stock operation again. So you see, as the number of orders are coming, after every order, I am doing a re-stocking. So this is a repetitive task. This is a repetitive task. I am repeating this task again and again once an order comes. So to handle these kind of repetitive scenarios where repetition is needed, we use loops or iteration, right? Or iteration. So that's a simple business logic that you can solve using loops and iteration. We'll start with something simple. So yeah, doing the same task per thousand times is exhausting for a human, but instant for a computer vibe because loop iterate or step to a collection one by one. Now let's say you want to calculate the total values of or your total sales of the day. Very simple task. Let's say today's sales based on the number of orders, 10, 20, 25, 45, 55. If I want to find, if I want to find how much is that total sales for the day? How much have I sold for the whole day? I can do it using for my list. So what I will do? I will initialize it with zero. Initially my domain sales is zero. Then I'll look at it again. One by one I'm going to add this. Then I'll move to the next. Then I move to the next. Then I move to the next. Then I move to the next. So one by one inside this total sales variable, I'm adding each of the element. So 10 plus 20 plus 25 plus 45 plus 55 is 125 and 45, 155. So 155 should be a total sales. So you see we start with the first value and then we jump on to the next and then we jump on to the next and so on and so forth. So that's the basics of iteration. So that's exactly what we have done. We have a list of monthly sales. So first amount was 1250 then 4000 but zero, 250.7 times and so on so forth. So we start with initial revenue, revenue, general sales. Initially there was zero. Then I use something known as a for loop. For loop. So I say for sales in monthly sales. So what does that mean? What does that mean? So I say for, let me copy. Yeah. Let me copy this and paste it here. So quickly I change this. So this comes here. This comes here. This comes here. This comes here. So you see what's happening? So initially I have total revenue as zero. There is start something known as a for loop. I say for sale in monthly sales. So what does that mean? It creates a variable called sale that is going to iterate or jump over each of the elements or each of the items that are present in this monthly sales list. So you start with here. So sale is pointing here. Then what am I doing? Total revenue is equal to total revenue plus sale. What is the initial value of total revenue, folks? What is the initial value of total revenue? What do you see here? So initial is zero. And what is the value of sale at the moment? Where is sale pointing to? Where is sale pointing to? 1200.50. So what is zero plus 1200.50? That's 1200.50. So now the total revenue is updated to 1200.50. And what will for now? Because of the for the sale will move to. So it will first complete iteration. So it will print this. It says add its late. So the added sale 1200.50 and your current total is 1200.50. So now when these two statements are executed, one iteration is completed. I go back to the starting. Note this statement will only get executed when I have exhausted this list, when I have looked over each of the element. So whatever is in the indentation blog, all of them will execute it and this will repeat until we have reached here. So now these two have been executed, sale will move here. Now tell me what is the value of total revenue? What is the value of total revenue? What is the value of total revenue? 1200.50? Where is my sale pointing at? 4000? So 1200.50 plus 4000 becomes 50 to 125. Yes or no? So now your sale or total revenue gets updated to 5200.50. And then you go to the next statement. The sprint command, you print again, added sale 4000.00 and your current total is, what is your current total? 5200.50. Now both of these are executed. Both of the statements that will present inside the form loop have been executed and then we will go to the starting again. So that is what iteration is. You go back to the beginning. We still have two elements left. So sale moves here. Now folks tell me what is the value of total revenue? The base of the previous iteration goes 50 to 100.5. Sale is pointing to 250.75. So total becomes what? The total becomes 5450 or 5451.25 something of this 5451.25. So this becomes your total revenue now. Right? And you will again print this added sale 250.75 and your total revenue is, 5451.25. Now we go back to the beginning. We are still one more element left which is 890.25. We do one more time. We do the same operation one more time. 5451.25 plus 890.25 whatever value you get you get and you print it. But note, is there anything left after this? Is there anything left after this? The list is empty now. So you come out of the loop and you print this final statement monthly revenue whatever value that you have got. So that is how it is happening in the back end. Is this process clear? Does anybody want me to repeat this? Is this understood? To everyone because it is very important for loops and loops in general are fundamental to Python. So you need to have a very solid understanding on how it is working. Is this clear to everyone? Run this? You see it shows each step. First it says, added sale 1225. So your current sale becomes 1218.5. Then you add 4000 which is added 4000 and your whatever your current sale is. Then 250.75. Similarly 890.25. After this, after you have iterated or after you have walked over the whole list, there is nothing left. So there is nothing left. So I can say once you mentioned executed everything, you come out of the loop. Let us say print K mod of the loop. It says after adding this value, it came out of the loop and then print the final monthly revenue. Is this understood to everyone? Anybody has any question? Are you sure? Cool. There is one more type of the loop that we are going to look at. It is called a value. Now what is the difference between form loop and a value? So in value, you put a condition first. So a condition always needs to be satisfied for the execution of the loop. Let us say we have a case. Let us say we have a stock value of 15. So I need to restock it. I need to increase the stock value to 20. I want to ensure that I keep on placing the order until it becomes 20. So I can put a condition here. I can say while stock value is less than 20. Till the time stock value is less than 20, you keep on placing an order. Print place order for one item. Once you have placed the order, you say stock value is equal to stock value plus 1. Let us see step. What is the stock value currently? Everybody, what is the stock value currently? Is 15 less than 20? So that means I am going to go inside the loop. What am I going to do? It is going to say place order for one more item and then stock value plus 1. What will happen to stock value now? What will happen to stock value? Why 16? Because I am doing a plus 1. So now stock value becomes 16. I have added a 1 to it. Is 16? But once this is executed, I am going to go back to the loop. I am going to keep on going back until this condition is satisfied. So tell me is 16 less than 20. So I am again going to go inside the loop, print the statement and do a plus 1. This becomes 17? Yes or no? Is 17 less than 20? So again I am going to go back 18, 19, 20. Now tell me is 20 less than 20? So 20 is not less than 20. So that means this condition is no longer satisfied and I come out of the loop. So I am going to execute the loop. I am going to keep on executing the loop until this condition is satisfied stock less than 20. Let us see. Let us see the stock level is 15. So I am going to say restock until the stock value becomes 20. So I am going to put a condition while stock level less than 20. Print placing and order for 1 item. Stock value equal to stock value less than 20. So let us say print current stock value is stock value. I am going to keep on doing this. Stock level, stock value. See it starts or is it it was 15? You added 1 to it. It became 16. Then again you added 1 to it became 17. Again adding 1 to it 18, 19 and once it becomes 20 it comes out of the loop. You do not execute after 20 because you are supposed to destalk until the stock level is 20. Is this clear? If I want to add a condition here to print a message like let us say when your stock becomes 20, when your stock becomes 20, add a message that says coming out of the loop. Because restock condition is full fill. How will you do it folks? Once the stock becomes 20 you need to add this message. How can I do this? Anyone has any idea? No one? Can we use something that we have just studied now before the loops? Yes, if I will do that. You are right. How will you do it using a fence? Anybody has any thoughts? Yes, very good. So I am going to simply say if the stock level has become 20, so for checking the quality I put equal to 2 times. If the stock level has become 20, you print this thing. Right? You see once it has become 20 it says coming out of the loop because you stop condition for a second. Is this clear to everyone? Any questions anyone? Cool. We have covered basics of Python today. There is still 15 minutes left. Look up your doubts as again, you know, because you have a lab session after this, right? There is a lab session after this. So you would be given certain questions that you need to solve for 1R. I will be around if anybody has a question. I can help you out. But this was basics of Python 1 that we covered today. In the next class, I think tomorrow is your class again. Saturday. Okay. Saturday will meet again where we will cover subsequent topics. We will try to go a little more in depth, so I kept very light today. Anybody has any questions? Any confusion in whatever we have studied? Any questions in general about the course? Cool. Cool. If not, let me see if anything else is there. Cool. Now those who are facing some attendance issues. Can you come up? So I can see a 29 edges. Who is Sejal Pitnaker? Are you here? Okay. Who is Webhav Agarwal? Is Webhav Agarwal? Webhav Agarwal? Not here, so not taking his niche. Pawitra Patel? Who is Pawitra? I want to say. Who is Pawitra? Okay. Amir Raj. Where are you? Abhuri Mati. Okay. Raja Kohar. Karthik Dixit. Karthik Dixit. Karthik Dixit. How many of these are actually proxies? Navya Singh? Navya Singh. Okay, you got my name here. Navya Singh? Where are you? Okay. And more, Mahajam? Suraj Lakyaani? Akshed Shgarla Pati? Munir Alam? Munir? Munir? Munir is not here, but his Najiz here, okay? Amrit Kang? Anmol Sandhu? Riddhima Jesswal? Where are you? Where are you? I didn't see you, okay? Disha Patel? Aju Shaman? Yash Kumar? Nippun Kalsothra? Nippun? Not here? Shivangi Adarwal? Vivek Sarathay? Iman Ji Joshi? Andra Juh Venkata Singh? Sorry, five can also name wrong. Akhil Nata? Devain Singh? Nihar Nihake? Mariam Ansari? Arpit Kapkat? Amartya Mahjumdar? Nippun Kalsothra? I think it's again, peace be on you. What is your name? Sai? Nippun Kalsothra? Four seven widows? Do I issue? Which I can be known? So what's your name? Ariyani Kumpati? Sizap Sandhu? What do you think is right there? Okay. Kulfoaks? I think we're done for this session. Anybody? Any questions? Yeah. Sorry, I can't hear you. General overview of? Of the whole term. So do see, I can only talk about the course. I am not aware about what I and other subjects that you have. So I can cover what we're going to do in data analytics course one or one. Let me open the sheet if I have one. Let me answer it. Let me quickly open this. Yeah. Okay. So see, what we're going to do is we're going to cover Python. So today we saw a lot of things that are about our basis of Python. One by one in subsequent session, we go a little bit deeper into it. So that will be part of your beginner Python when we'll discuss data structures, loops, conditional statements. Then in beginner Python 2, we'll try to go into functional programming. Right? How do you write functions? How do you calculate the time complexity of a code that you have written? Then object oriented programming? That's how you write code in industry. So it's a way of writing code. So that's we're going to cover. And then comes your main data analytics module. Here we'll learn about numpy, so basically various libraries in Python that you can utilize to do data analytics. Right? So you will be given a data set. So we ask certain business questions related to it. What is the total sales for this month? So what is the total sales for quarter? How much profit are we seeing in this quarter? Not only calculating exact statistics, but also visualizations like charts related to it. Dash was related to it. So things like that. Then we'll cover probability. Probability and statistics are very important in data science and analytics. How do you estimate something that is going to occur in the future? Right? Forecast, what is your sales going to be? Figuring out the chances of an event happening. So basics of probability and mathematics around it. So probability and stats is another one. So this is what we're going to cover in brief around data analytics, visualizations, solving business problems using data science and data analytics. So this is what we're going to cover in this course. And subsequent courses maybe your respective instructors will be able to help you better. Sorry? So what else you have covered? Right. Okay. Okay. So you can share that with me and we can confirm like what exactly are the changes and we can go around that. So this is what I have been given, but if there are certain changes, I'll update you by next class. I'll set it up. You can just tell that. Exactly. Sure. Yeah, please. Sorry. I have to wait. Ten minutes. Okay. What's your name? Sorry, I'm stuck here. Sorry. Fishy, thank you. Fishy, I don't see the name here. What's your name? I don't see actually. Don't worry, I'll take a note. Fishy's a juicy right? I'll take a note. One second. I'll take a note. This is what you've shared. Okay. Okay. Uh. Which one? I see. Okay. I can check with the team. What's the difference? Okay. Let's let's talk about this in Saturday. Saturday, while confirm and head back. Any other questions? Any other questions? You'll get in sometime. Any other questions? Cool. If no questions, then we are good to go. You just wait here. I'll let me see when we can add any other assignments. Cool. I think that's all for today. Thanks folks for joining in. Let me end the lecture here as well. Cool.