you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you down up It's a very simple question. You just have to create the classes and interfaces as it has been described. Nothing else. I hope everyone is able to understand the problem statement. Pretty easy. Just write as the document says and I'm pretty sure you all will be able to implement it. Yes, the libous is from intro to OSTL revisting moves. It hasn't mentioned in the handbook also. Let me check. Concrency will not be a pardon as we are evolving it. Once we are done with the classes, tell you the exact pattern of the question paper also. You haven't done that. So we do have a class on Thursday, right? On Thursday, we can discuss it. Okay. So we are going to do that today. How many of you want to do this scheduling algorithms today? The coding part. Please raise your hand if you want to drive the scheduling part. Again, the audience is divided. I'm launching a poll. Please vote on that. Please answer the poll. Please answer the poll. I'm sorry. It's all correct. I'm sorry. I have a little problem. I'm talking to the program. This is my EOBs. Okay. As most of you have voted to go ahead with the coding of all the algorithms, we'll go ahead and do that. Okay. So I'll tell you the format of the class first. We will start with the code. But before starting with the code, we will do a brief algorithm, revisit what we were supposed to do. Okay. Then I will give you a code, block by block. And I will try to make as minimal changes as possible so that if you know FCFS, you will be able to implement SJF also. And then when we learn about shortest remaining time first, which is preemptive in nature, again, in this we will do minimal changes so that we can go ahead and implement the round robin code also. Okay. Now, I hope you understand that I am trying to make minimal changes so that the code remains the same. If you have better approaches to implement the entire code, you can go ahead and do that as well. Is that clear? Okay. Great. Okay. Yeah, I will do the petyp one also. Do you know how cues work? Yes. Okay. So the priority of all the models will also be discussed. Don't worry about that. Okay. Just give me a moment. Okay. So have it discussed how to create a class for process? Can you all go ahead and create a class for process? Please go ahead and create a class for process right now. What all attributes must be there? Think about it. And then tell me. Okay. Okay. So first of all create a class process. We won't need the remaining time in the general class. So you create a class process and then you think about all the details it will require. Okay. The very first thing that you will need is pid, which is the process id, then you will need arrival time. After this, you will need the burst time. Then you will need the completion time. Then you will need the turnaround time. And then you will need the wait time. Okay. So this is all the detail which you will require to create that table that you have. Okay. Now once I have this process created, I will need to fill up some data. Okay. So for this, we will need a constructor process. Okay. What all things will be given by the user over here? The user will provide you the pid. They will give you the arrival time and they will give you the burst time. Right. Nothing else is given by the user. You have to calculate it. So what will happen over here? This dot pid is equal to pid. Similarly, this dot at is equal to at. Okay. And this dot bt is equal to bt. Okay. I hope all of you were able to create this process class. Yes. Any problem for over here? How the class is created? Okay. For all of you who find it difficult to write classes, just a small suggestion, at write these classes above the class main. Okay. Use it above the class main. Don't write it inside. Okay. All those who are not comfortable coding with classes and objects. Okay. Next thing. We will be using the same process class for every single scheduling algorithm, which we will be discussing. But some of the attributes will keep on changing. Okay. Like we might need to add priority attribute for practice, scheduling algorithm. Okay. Which we can add over here. We might need remaining time for some other algorithm, which we will add over here. Okay. This is the basic class structure, which you will always create. Is that clear? Everyone? Great. So now let us start with FCFS. So whenever we start with FCFS, what happens over there? What happens in FCFS? Whatever process comes first is going to start first. And that is all right. So now here what we do, we start with the class main. Okay. I am showing you the creation of process also. It might not be required in your main port, which is the exams, but we will be learning this. Okay. Please complete it with the correct syntax wherever I am skipping something. So I want to store all the processes in an array right now. So what will I do? I will create a process array. Okay. I am naming it processes. Okay. And here every time I create an object of process. Okay. So PID is one arrival time is zero, burst time is four. Similarly again another process object. Okay. PID is two arrival time is one and burst time is three. Then again multiple such processes can be created. I hope that is clear everyone. Okay. So once I do this, what happens in the system that a process array is created. All the process early which has been created is of processes type, which means it will contain objects. So right now I have an object which has PID one, the arrival time zero and the burst time four. Similarly PID two arrival time one and the burst time three and so on. Okay. This is what the process array will look like. Okay. Now once you are done with this, now tell me in FCFS what do you base your algorithm on. Tell me arrival time right whatever comes first you are going to use that. So far if you are basing I will go to them on arrival time. Is it possible or not that these arrival time are not sorted. Because as of now I am giving object sam sorting but because this array will be created at the back end. You do not have control over it as of now. It may be sorted it may not be sorted. So it is your duty to go ahead and sort it and how will you sort it. By the lambda expression I hope everyone is comfortable writing the lambda expression. Great. So what I will I will do over here write arrays dot sort and processes. Okay. A comma B lambda and I am going to say a dot 80 minus B dot 80. What are we doing right now? We are comparing two objects arrival time and sorting the entire array on the basis of that. Okay. Now this is done. Okay. So what have I done as of now I have created a process class. I have created an array which contains the object of the process class. And I have sorted it on the basis of arrival time which means now it is simply pick every process and start with my scheduling algorithm. Okay. That is what we have done. Now we will need to create the Gantt chart. For creating the Gantt chart what is the first thing in the Gantt chart you see the current time moving. So you can see that the current time is equal to zero. Then you will need to calculate the total completion time. You will need the total turnaround time. You will need total wait time. These are all the attributes which you will be needing. Is that clear everyone? They declare all the attributes. Now you are supposed to pick the values. Okay. So now tell me I am starting at current time zero. Okay. I will be always starting at current time zero. But is it always compulsory that all the processes that we have created. Some of them might arrive at zero. Is it compulsory that they will arrive at zero? No. It is not compulsory that they will arrive at zero. But what is my current time zero? So I am trying to pick a particular process which has arrived at zero. So in the case no process has arrived. CPU will be free. So what should I do at the moment? I know that CPU should not remain idle. Right? CPU should not remain idle and hence I need to update my current time. Yes or no? Okay. So as the array is sorted completely I can say for process. P processes. Okay. So what is happening? P is going to be the indicator. Okay. Point to pick every single object right now. Now as I am working with P and the array is sorted obviously if the arrival time of any process was zero it will be at the first index automatically. So I can check over here. So if the current time, if the current time is less than the arrival time of the process what should I do? If the current time is less than the arrival time of the process what should I do? I should increase the current time. Yes, I should increase the current time, but not tell me. Will I just do plus plus? Tell me. Exactly. We will update the current time to the arrival time of the very first process. And this makes sure that my CPU is not idle rather it has moved to the next process. Okay. Then once it has moved, I can say now the completion time of the process should be updated. So, I want to update the completion time, what I name it CT, right? So, p dot CT should be what? p dot CT should be what? Absolutely right. The current time which I am at plus the arrival time of the process. Similarly, when I want to calculate the process turn around time, then also use the formula simply for the current process, get the completion time and subtract the arrival time of this process. Okay. After doing this, you need the wait time. Wait time is nothing, but the turn around time minus the burst time. Okay. And like this, we would have calculated all the attributes. Yes. So, the values for all the current process have been updated. What should be the next step? What should be the next step? I am saying, first of all, I have moved the current time to a particular location so that I can start a process. Now once I have started the process, I have completed all the calculations. The next step should be to get the current time on the GAN chart. Okay. So, again, you are going to go ahead and calculate the current time. So, now tell me, what is the current time at the moment in terms of FCFS? What should be the current time? If I am saying earlier current time was 2 and the process P1 executed, P1 has executed for 8 units of time. The burst time of P1 was 8. So, what will be the current time now? Absolutely right. You can say that the current time will be plus equal to the burst time or even directly say that current time is nothing but the completion time of the process. In FCFS, the completion time and the current time will always be the same. Is that clear? Everyone, any doubt? Okay. Why we are doing this? Because if you must have noticed that the moment you see that this process will never appear again in the GAN chart, that is when I update the completion time. Okay. So, I am writing current time equal to the completion time of the process. And after this, you will simply go ahead and calculate the other parameters which are total, turnaround time, total, completion time. Okay. All of this will be calculated by p dot CT, p dot TAT and p dot WT. Right? And this is all that you have to do. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt at the moment? Now, you can go ahead and simply print whatever you have calculated. And this will be the end of FCFS algorithm. Is this clear or any doubt in this? I can't see clearly what the time time will be. Sure. Let me check. I don't think you have to write the process class. It will be given already. But you should understand how it works. You don't have to write the process class. Okay. Is just that you should know how the data is coming, how the process class is built. So what happens over here is suppose this was p1, okay. Current time was supposed to. Okay. If the current time was to and saying that the p1 take 8 units. Okay. And it has arrived at 2. Okay. So what will be the completion time? Then, okay. If the completion time is 10, is in the current time also 10. So there is no need to recalculate it can simply place the value of completion time. That is what we are trying. Okay. Is it clear any doubt at the moment? I am trying to share the link with you all, but it is not happening. Just the moment. Okay. So I hope XeFS is clear to everyone of you. Yeah. Great. So now we will move on to SJF non-preemptive. Okay. Now tell me what is important in SJF? The burst time, least burst time is important. Okay. What else is important? Very good. Arrival time is also very important. Okay. Arrival time is also very, very important. So why is arrival time important? Because even if the burst time is very small, but the process has never arrived. Can you execute the process? No, you cannot. I will just go back and take an example from the previous class. That is the moment. Where did I not go? Suppose this was given. Now here you can see that the burst time here is 4, here is 1, here is 4 again. Okay. Now according to shortest job first, I should be choosing 1. But my question is, has it arrived yet? No, it has not arrived. And hence you cannot pick it. Right. Similarly, tell me, if I try to use the FCFS code directly, can I sort the array according to just the arrival time? Will that be correct? No. Can I sort the array just based on the burst time? No, that is also not correct. So instead of sorting the array, we choose something different. And that is, we add an attribute known as completed. Okay. So the process class that you have, you can also have a completed attribute over there. Now what will this completed attribute do? That will be checked that the process has been completed or not completed. Okay. So along with this, now you have a completed attribute. I am marking it as C. And I am saying that initially none of the processes are completed. Is that clear? Okay. None of the processes are complete at the moment. Which means you will take the same class. Okay. An R1 attribute, Boolean completed. As of now, we say that this dot completed is always equal to false. What does this indicate that the process is still remaining? We have to do it. We are adding this attribute for two reasons. Because we are not now linearly traversing the array. Rather we will keep on changing the sequence. So we need to make sure that the process that we are picking is not complete yet. And that is possible using the completed attribute. Second thing, once we add the attribute over here, we can use the exact same code for shortest remaining job. Which is the preemptive approach also. Okay. So after doing this, we will start our main function. Okay. Now initially we say that the number of completed processes is equal to 0. Okay. The number of completed processes is equal to 0. And all the other attributes remain the same. Okay. And this is the only change that you have made. Now can I say because of starting to count the completed processes? Instead of simply iterating over the array, I can say that while my completed count is less than n, and being the length of the process array, if this is less than n, it means that there are processes remaining, which were not complete yet. And we will have to re-itrate the array and pick the one which has not been completed. Okay. So initially, I will select a particular process. Selecting a particular process means selecting that index of the process. So I say that selected process as of now I do not know. So it is minus one. Okay. And I want to base this entire algorithm on the minimum burst time. So the minimum burst time should be integer dot max value initially. So that the first minimum time which I am picking should replace it. Okay. So after doing this, we need to do a couple of things and you guys will tell me what should be the conditions for this. First of all, we have to find the process. Okay. Find the process that is not completed. Okay. Find the process which is not complete. Find the process which has already arrived and then make sure it has the smallest burst time. Okay. These are the three things which you have to write. Okay. If these conditions are true, I will be able to select the process. So tell me what can I do over here. Okay. And then the example is to see if a static are in. Okay. So these are the things that we have to do. We have to select the process which is not complete has arrived and has a smallest burst time. So how can I select it? Can I say we will be starting the iteration for the array. I is equal to 0, I is less than n in being the size of the process array. Okay. And I am saying in this variable P, I store the first element. I hope the name was processes only. Okay. From the process array, add index I, whatever is the element, I have stored in P. Now for this P, you have to check for these values. If these values satisfy, I will be able to select the index I. Does that make sense everyone? I start I trading. I start I trading. Check for this. Okay. And then make a check for these conditions. If these conditions are true, select the index I. So what will you do right now? What will you do? Are you okay? Okay. Tell me what conditions will you have to write? Absolutely right. First of all, we will say that if this p dot completed, p dot completed is should be false and the arrival time should be less than equal to the current time. In this situation, now the this process has a probability of getting selected. But one more thing is remaining at the moment. Is it the minimum burst time because there will be multiple processes which are arriving? So you will write another condition and another condition will be if p dot bt is less than the minimum burst time I have as of now. Okay. If that is true, then first of all the minimum bt will be updated to the process bt. And then I can say selected process index will become I. Is that clear everyone? Any doubt? Okay. So this will iterate over the entire array and figure out the process which has arrived, which is not complete and has minimum burst time. Okay. Yeah. I mean minimum burst time we have towards the maximum by 4. Yeah, that's how it is going to be updated right? I will explain to you what was the time right now. So I will show you what happens over here. As of now current time is 0. Current time is equal to 0 and the minimum bt is equal to the maximum possible value. Complicated count is also equal to 0. I am just writing it as cc. Okay. So as of now I have not sorted the array. I have come over here. Okay. So this will say is p1 complete? No, it is not complete. Is the arrival time less than equal to the current time? Yes, it is. Okay. Is the minimum bt greater than the burst time? Yes, it is. Because infinity is greater than 7. So what will happen? Now minimum bt will be 7. And at the moment I can say selected will become equal to index 0 because I have selected this process. Okay. Now similarly I will become 1. Is this complete? No. Has it arrived? No. So this is not considered. Come over here. Is this complete? No. Has it arrived? No. Next I. Is this complete? No. Has it arrived? No. So the first process selected will be p1 and then what will happen? You will do all the calculations for p1. Okay. So if I do all the calculations after doing calculations I can say c will become true over here because the process is now complete. Okay. Completed count will become 1 and you would have calculated everything. Is that clear? Now again the whole loop runs. It checks. Is completed count less than n? So yes, 1 is less than n. So again I will begin my selection. I begin my selection from here again. Okay. I check. Is p1 complete? Yes. It is complete. So the compiler will ignore this one. Okay. It will come over here. Are you complete? Yes. Okay. Now you see completion time was 7 at the moment. It means current time would have been 7 at the moment. So what can you say? Are you complete? No, I am not complete. Is the arrival time less than current time? Yes. And what is the burst time? The minimum burst time for. So as of now you can say the minimum burst time has been updated to 4. Okay. And the process has been selected. Okay. The index is 1 at the moment. But the loop is still not complete. It will again check for this process. Have you arrived? Yes. 4 is less than 7. It has arrived. Are you complete? No, I am not complete. The burst time is 1. So now what happens? The minimum burst time gets updated to 1 and selected process becomes index 2. Is that clear everyone? How this loop is running? Then it will check for this also. But nothing will be updated. So selected process is 2. What will we do? We will mark true over here. And then the entire process is going to execute. Current time will get updated. Now current time, I can say must have been updated to something. I don't know it as of now. Okay. So again what happens? Far my iteration completed count has become 2. 2 is less than n. I will begin selecting the process. This process is ignored because it is true already. I come over here. It has arrived. It is not complete. It's burst time is 4. Again, this process is ignored because it is complete. I come over here. Is it false? Are I well done? Is 5? And burst time is 4. So which process will execute? This P2 process is going to execute. This is how your loop is working. Is that clear everyone? Yes. You can do it. But I guess the array that you received will be final. If you again, I am trying to tell you that you can implement whatever you want to. I am just giving you such a code which uses minimal changes. So that in the future also, if you use this for shortest remaining time for us, you can use the exact same code the couple of changes. But if you delete the process once it is complete, in the shortest remaining time for us, the process should not be deleted. We will have to reuse it. That's why I am not changing that. Again, you can implement the code however you want to. I am giving you the simplest possible implementation. So that if you know one code, you can translate into all the other codes. P2 will be. Because think about it, the first time is 4. The next first time is 4. The minimum first time is not less than 4. It is equal. So nothing is updated. That's how arrival time comes into picture. So I hope now you are able to understand completed count helps us ensure that all the processes are getting completed. Whereas this loop is helping us select the process which I am going to execute. Any doubt at the moment. Now, can I say it is possible that after this loop, no process was selected. Yes or no? Because I am comparing the arrival time with the current time, which is initially equal to 0. So it is possible that even after the complete iteration, I was not able to select any process. Yes or no? So that is the case. Can I say the check is ready here? If the selected variable is still equal to minus 1, no process has been selected. In that case, you will go ahead and increment the current time. No, no, we cannot do that because now that array is not sorted. If the array is not sorted, I cannot simply pick any process. Rather, I will have to do plus plus and skip that next iteration or the current iteration. So I do continue over here. Now, why are these two things important? After the whole iteration, no process was selected. Hence I have checked minus 1. Then I cannot randomly pick a process which is available in the array to simply say that this is the new current time. Why? Because the array is not sorted. Second thing, we will have to skip this particular iteration because if the process was never selected, I should not be updating all the other calculations, meaning total turnaround time, total waiting time, all of that. So now what do we do over here? We are going to change the mind. This one is better. So now if in the case the process was selected, what will you do? You will simply store it somewhere just for ease of use. So P is equal to process selected. As selected was the index which I have chosen, I am storing it in P. And then all the other calculations remain exactly the same. So current time is equal to the completion time is equal to current time plus the burst time. The turnaround time is equal to completion time minus the arrival time. And the wait time is equal to turnaround time minus the burst time. And all the other calculations, I am going to copy it. Okay. Will be the same. Now apart from this, what are the other two things I need? I will need to mark that process as complete. So in order to mark that process as complete, I will say P dot completed. So P dot is equal to true and the completed count will be incremented. And that is the only change we have to do. Now you see why continue was so important because I wanted to skip everything as the process was never selected. Any doubt in this one, any doubt this algorithm is very, very important. So in case you are having any doubts, let me know. I have shared the link on a dashboard also. So in the meeting link also, please check that. So this entire algorithm needs four things. First of all, completed count to make sure all the processes are complete because we are picking from anywhere in the array. Second thing, I need to base the picking in three conditions. Then select to the process, use a loop to select a process based on the three conditions. Check if any process has been selected. If it has not been selected, update the current time to one. I cannot jump to the just next process because array is not sorted. Continue this step because you don't want to do the following steps because the following steps are use the selected processes attributes and update the timings. Is that clear everyone any doubt over here? Any doubt? Okay. Perfect. So let us now move on and see the shortest remaining time first. So what did we do in shortest remaining time? Shortest remaining time was nothing, but it was preemptive. So what happens over here? That if the burst time is seven suppose and you have allowed the process to run for two seconds, you will need to remain update the remaining burst time if the process is preempted. So the new remaining burst time would become five. This is what we do. You guys tell me what all changes will be required. Is there any change required in the previous algorithm to support this? Yes or no? Correct. Okay. So first tell me what all changes are required in the process class. Now do I need a completed variable? Is there something better we can replace it with? Tell me. The remaining time. See what is the attribute which keeps changing the burst time keeps changing. Now I can say instead of having completed, I am going to have another attribute as remaining time. Now this remaining time will be updated every time the process is selected. So I don't need to have this. And initially when I am creating the process, what should the remaining time be? It should be equal to the burst time itself. And then can I say I can use the exact same algorithm which we have done as of now? Yes. Same as if can be used. Yes or no? And what will be the changes there? What will be the changes there? If I use the exact same thing. Correct. What else? Correct. So I am giving you this and I am telling you that the remaining time has to be updated. Now figure out the changes that you will have to make. The code is right in front of you. It is also available in the link. Please tell me what will be the changes that you will need to make. Think about the condition, how you choose the process. Think about how you will update the remaining time of the process. Think when can I mark the process completed? I am not sure what will be the changes that are required. I hope all of you are able to visualize how we are trying to make minimal changes and their algorithms still works. I hope all of you are able to visualize how we are trying to make minimal changes. I hope all of you are able to visualize how we are trying to make minimal changes and their algorithms still work. First of all tell me is any change required over here? What will change in this? Process should have arrived definitely. Process should not have been completed. What about this? Shouldn't this statement change? The smallest burst time is remaining time. Now make the change in the code also. I don't have this attribute anymore. What should I write over here? So instead of this statement now I say if the p dot RT, let me change the color that you know what the changes are. p dot RT should be greater than 0 and the process should have arrived that is all. Next thing we were checking p dot bt should be less than minimum bt. Instead of that you can change the name of this also just for ease of understanding. So we now check if p dot RT is less than minimum RT and then minimum RT will be equal to p dot RT and then you select the process. This is the first change that you have made. Selected will remain the same which means the other calculations also remain the same. What should be added now? What should be added? I am saying that algorithm is preemptive which means that the selected process runs for only one unit every time before checking has any new process arrived. So what will you do at the moment that I will just push this a little down. I will say that the RT should be decremented by only one unit because at any point a process can come and preempt it. And the current time that you have absolutely right. The current time that you have it cannot be p dot ct but rather this will also be just one unit incremented. Yes and once you are doing this it is possible that your p RT becomes equal to 0. So what should you do in that case? What should you do in that case? Just the moment. So if the remaining time of the process has become equal to 0 then what can I say? So a couple of things over here only if the process remaining time is 0 then you have to go ahead and calculate the other attributes. If the remaining time was greater than 0 there was no need to calculate the other attributes. What are the attributes? That p dot ct should become equal to the current time. Then p dot at should become p dot ct minus p dot at and p dot wt should become p dot t at minus p dot bt. And then you will do the rest of the process and you will say that the completed count has now been incremented. And then you can go ahead and print everything. Does this make sense everyone? So this is how you will be going forward with this algorithm. And again see try to do the minimal changes as possible and everything else remains the same. Why do we require this because we do not have the completed attribute anymore rather we are seeing that any time at any moment if prt becomes equal to 0 then only I have to make the required changes. Otherwise I can keep on selecting a new process and this prt can come any time back in the GAN chart. Any problem over here any problem please ask in case you have any issues that drive them will work exactly the same as we have solved the numericals in the class. Any problems? I am telling you right away that this particular code is not very important from the example perspective but for the end sem we might get this. You can focus on the other algorithms more next comes priority. Now think about it isn't priority algorithm very simple to implement now. Because priority is going to be preemptive. Yes or no. Priority will be preemptive and you will base it on the priority of the process. So can you all go ahead take terminates and try to write the code for priority. It will be very similar to the shortest remaining time first very similar just one more attribute of priority will be added. Can you all go ahead and try it out. Remember this is a preemptive one. If you have any questions or questions, please let us know in the comments. The highest number is the highest rate. Thank you. Thank you. Did I add these coding questions for you all in this end? In which class should you learn? Because I am not just the algorithm class. I am not just the algorithm class. I am not just the algorithm class. The exact same code from shortest remaining time will work with three major changes. Instead of first time you need to select priority and then also you have to check if the process has arrived or not. And you remember in case the priority was same, how did we break the time with the help of arrival time. If you have those conditions out and you will get the answer. If you have those conditions out and you have those conditions out and you will get the answer. For testing the code you can create the process array with the help of any of the previous examples that we have discussed. If you have any questions or questions, please let us know in the comments. Thank you. How many of you were able to figure out the changes? First of all, see how in the process we have made a couple of changes. Priority you should always remember the higher the priority. Let us begin. We are not basing the algorithm on the minimum remaining time anymore. If I am checking for the highest priority, should I store the maximum value over here? No, I will be storing the minimum value. This is the very first change that you have to make. Then I still have to check, has the process arrived, is the process complete and has the highest priority. This is what we had to implement. We are beginning with the selection again. The PRT should be greater than zero. Let us make some changes over here now. First of all, we are saying let us select the process. If P dot priority is greater than the highest priority, I hope HP is the name. If it is higher, what do we have to do? We are going to select the process and after this, we will go ahead and select IO over here. Then we say that there can be a tie also. If any processes have the same priority, yes, you can do that. So, if true processes have the same ID, choose the one which has arrived earlier. Here I am writing an else if condition, if the priority is equal to the priority of the previous process, whatever it was, and make sure that there was no process selected. There is no process selected and the priority is equal. Then only I can select the current process. In this case, what will be right? One second. What were you saying? We are saying that selected process should be empty. There should be no process at the moment which is running. If you want, you can remove this also. It is just a security condition that no other process is running at the moment. That is why I am able to select the current process. I am saying that you can remove this also. If you think about it, the process initially I am beginning. Definitely no process has been selected. Then if you complete a process and you move it in the next one, then also process will be minus one. Even if you remove it, it would not cause much of a difference. Let us go over that only. As if the priority of the process is equal to the highest priority. In this case, what should be the case? What should we do? We will make a condition check for the arrival time. The process is less than the process selected. We will need the condition because we need to make sure that the process was selected earlier. We need to make sure that there is some process which has been selected. Otherwise, how will you compare? If you compare with the previous ID, then the selected process will not be picked. It will give you index out of bound. Selected should not be equal to minus one. If you compare the arrival time of the current process with the selected process, and if this is lesser, then you will change the selected process to i. This is the change which we will have to make. This is the change. This is the change. Is this making sense now? All the conditions that we have. This is picking the process of the highest priority. If we are trying to break our time condition, the process should have been selected. Highest priority should be equal to the p.priotd. If it has arrived, then we will need to preempt and restart. After doing this, we can continue with the rest of the process. If you want, you can put it. If the arrival time is equal, then we will do that. I will add a comment over here. Add else for burst time. If you want, you can add that as well. If the process has been selected, then you will proceed with all the calculations. If the process was not selected, skip this particular iteration. p.rtc-minus-currenttime will be plus plus if prt is complete, then do all the calculations, which remain the same. That is it. That is all that you have to do. We are changing the priority code. This is why I keep on re-itrating. I try to make minimal changes. All the conditions will only change how you select the process. Everything else remains the same. Any doubt in this one? Any doubt in this one? Please go over the code and tell me there is any doubt. I will just copy one more example of round robin. I will just copy one more example of round robin. Please go over the code. Then it is available in the notice board. Thank you. Thank you. Any problems in priority? If not, we will move to round robin. Round robin is actually very important algorithm. Now you guys tell me what happens in round robin. Please tell me. I told you that round robin works like FCFS. And then whatever is remaining is added back to the job. Don't you feel like it is working like a queue? Yes or no? Suppose P1 game, P2 game, P3 game. P1 P2 P3 have been added to the queue from where they are going to be picked. I select the first process. Once it completes, I will add it at the back of the queue. That is what happens. Now if you want to implement such a structure, don't you feel like we will need a queue as well? So the round robin algorithm will be implemented with the help of a priority queue. Do you all know what is a priority queue or do you all know what is a queue? Yes, you understand how the data structure of queue works. So let us solve the question first and it will make it even more clear. We will have a queue and we will have a GAN chart. First I am starting at 0. So if I am starting at 0, what do I have to check? Which process has arrived? Tell me which process has arrived at the moment? If P1 has arrived, I can enter it in the queue. Now what do I do to select a process to run? I will enter all the processes. If the current time is 0, I will go over the process array and check what all processes have arrived at the moment. Current time is 0. The process which has arrived is 1. Now what do I do? I will remove it from the queue and start execution. It is supposed to execute for how many time quantum? Three time quantum. Three time quantum. So this runs still 3. So again what happens at the moment? The remaining time is updated. So 8 minus 3 will be 5. After this what can I say? The time right now is 3. As the time right now is 3, I will check what other processes have arrived. What other processes have arrived? So what all have arrived right now? Okay. P2 has arrived. P3 has arrived. P4 has arrived. Has P5 arrived at the moment? No. Now after adding P2, P3, P4, what will we do? We will add P1 at the back. Why? Why we are adding P1 at the back? Because there is still remaining time. And the process has arrived. Okay. Now again we will select a process from the queue. So which process will be selected from the queue? P2 will be selected. As P2 is selected, P2 will start running. P2 will execute for 3 time counter, which means the current time will become 6. And the remaining time over here becomes 1. When I am at 6, which process has arrived? P5 has arrived. So P5 will be put in the queue first. After putting P5, I will enter P2. Why am I putting P2? Because P2 still has time remaining. Is that clear? So before adding the old process, which we were running currently, add all the other processes which have arrived. Okay. So now P2 is also done. Next, which process has arrived? P3 has arrived. Okay. Remove P3 from the queue. As P3 starts its execution. But how much time will it run? 3 again. Current time becomes 9. And P3 remaining time becomes 6. Okay. Now, is any new process remaining to be added in the queue? No. No processes remaining. Now add P3 over here. Okay. P3 has been added. After adding P3, you see no other new process is remaining. So I can simply start removing the processes from the queue. Okay. Now, remove P4. As I remove P4, I can say that P4 runs for again 3 units of time, making the current time as 12. And P4 time becomes 2. Okay. Has any other process arrived? Not as of now. So I can again add P4 at the back. Okay. After this again, which process will be selected? P1 will be selected. Okay. P1 is selected, which means I am removing it from the queue. As I remove it from the queue, P1 is now running. P1 remaining time will be 2 because it has run for 3 seconds, which means completion time becomes 15. Is that clear everyone? Okay. Once you see that there is still the process remaining. I will again add it to the back of the queue done. Okay. Next move to the other process. It is P5. P5 is now going to run. Okay. P5 is going to run. It executes for complete 2 seconds. Okay. I am drawing the Ganttard over here. 15 was the earlier current time. P5 has executed for only 2 units. So the Ganttard time will be 17. Now you see the process P5 is complete. As the process P5 is complete, what will I have to do? I will now update the completion time. What is the completion time for P5? 17 is the completion time. And on the basis of that, you can calculate other attributes also. Please notice you will only find the completion time of any process, no matter which algorithm apart from the non-primitive ones, only when the remaining time is 0. Otherwise, you will not make the calculations. Okay. Now as P5 was complete, the remaining time is 0. Will I add it back to the queue? No. I will not add it back to the queue. Next, I will see P2. As you see, P2 remove this from the queue. And P2 is also going to run for only one amount of time. And this also becomes 0. Right. It becomes 0, which means now P2 I can mark as completed. The completion time will be 18 and I will not reenter it in my queue. After this, what do you have to do? Pick P3. As I pick P3, again, P3 starts running. It executes for three units of time, which means now the current time becomes 21. The remaining time decreased by 3. Has the process completed yet? No. The process is not completed yet. Has the process is not complete? What will I do? Add it back to the queue. Done. After this, you have P4. Again, you are supposed to pick P4. If you pick P4, P4 executes for two units of time, making the current time 23. And the remaining time as 0. Will this process be complete? Yes. How? Because the remaining time is 0. Now calculate the completion time. Completion time becomes 23. After this, you will not reenter it in the queue. Next process to be picked is going to be P1. P1 is picked as P1 is picked again. What can I say? It will run for how many units? Two units only. The 25 will be the completion time over here. And the remaining time becomes 0. Which means that now P1 is also complete. After this, the only process remaining is P3. Now P3 is taken out. You see that P3 also runs for only 3 seconds or 3 units of time. So this becomes 0. P3 has run till 28. Hence completion time is 28. And the process will be marked completely. This is how the round robin exactly works. Is this clear everyone? If you solve the numerical, also using this approach, I am pretty shortly much easier to solve as well. Is the approach clear? What we are doing? How to enter in the queue? Will you be able to write the code for this? Can you all try once? Try to write the code for round robin implementing a queue. Try out writing the code till then I will take the attendance. Instead of the complete code, you can also try writing just the pseudo code. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You The attendance has been uploaded. In case you are seeing absent, please nudge. I will resolve the conflicts after 10 minutes when we complete this particular code. So now how many of you are able to come up with a logic for this particular code? Were you able to implement the queue? Yes or no? All of you can send nudges once we are done with the code, we will go forward with the attendance market. So the very first thing that you see is the class. Is any change required in the class? Is any change required in the class? As you see there is only one extra attribute which was the remaining time that has been added. Otherwise there is no need of anything else. All this is not required. What about time? Time content is not a part of the process, time content will be given. So this is done. After this you will start the guys, please pay attention, it is an important algorithm. So time content will be given to you. Suppose let me add a host tq only. Time content will be given in the program. Suppose it is two. Suppose. Now can I say in order to place the elements in the queue I was saying add 0 how many processes have arrived? Add 0 how many processes have arrived? Which means I am sorting the array which I have based on the arrival time. Sort the array based on the arrival time because they will pick all the elements which have arrived at the moment. And then you will create your own queue. This queue type will be process and I am creating a queue. Please complete this. All the other attributes of current time. If you do not wish to listen you can move out of the class. I do not have any issues. Do not sit here and keep talking. Last row. Last row. Completed count again is equal to 0. And as of now I have not picked any process. So I am saying index of the process is also 0. Now I say that while the completed count while the completed count of the process is less than n. I will need to keep adding all the processes to the queue. Now what all processes should be added over here? The process should have arrived till the current time. And the index should be in the range. Again I am re-itrating. If you do not wish to contain the class you can leave that attendance husband mark. Do not need to stay here and disturb the entire class. So first of all you check that the index that we are picking should be in the range and in the processes array that index which I have the arrival time of that process should be less than equal to the current time that I have. If both these things are true then you can go ahead and add the process. This will help you add multiple processes at one time. The queue I named it as queue only. queue.add. What are you going to add? This entire thing process index. Helping you add the entire object in the queue and then index plus plus so that you can add any number of elements which have arrived. Like this you have added all the processes. The next step for selecting the process from the queue would be removing it from the queue. But what if you are never able to add any process. So you should keep a check there also that if my queue which I have is empty what should be done. Can I continue with the algorithm? No. If the queue is empty I cannot continue with the algorithm instead what will I have to do? Increment my current time so that the next time can check if the processes have arrived. After doing this what should we do? If I have checked that process has not arrived increment current time and skip the entire iteration. And then you will see if the queue is not empty you are supposed to pick the first process. Now the process which I am picking should be removed from the queue. So I say process p is equal to q dot remove. Now as I remove it for how long can this process run. Either it can run for the complete time quantum or it can run for the complete remaining time whichever is lesser. So I am going to say it has taken attribute for execution time also. Execution time of the process should be the minimum of the time quantum which we have taken or the remaining time of that process. Because it might be possible which you have seen earlier also. The time quantum was more but the remaining time was lesser. Once I am saying that execution time has been selected I will need to do what that the remaining time should be now decremented. The remaining time should be decremented by how much? The execution time which you have picked. The execution time minus the execution time because any of that can be valid. So you decrease the remaining time. After decreasing the remaining time I say that the process must have been preempted. I need to update the current time by how much will the current time be updated? It will be updated by the execution time because that is how long the process has run. After this what do we need to do? During this execution new processes may have arrived. And because of this we will need to add them into the ready cube we have seen this. But even before adding the current process which I was working on the previous processes must have arrived. So add them into the ready cube. So again what am I going to do? Do the whole loop again this one. This repeat this entire thing. While index is less than n check if the process has arrived and then add it to the cube and index plus plus. This is what you have to repeat. Bless you. And then what will we check? The current process that I have is the remaining time greater than 0 because if the remaining time is greater than 0 you will add that process back to the cube. This is done. Okay. If the remaining time is greater than 0 add it back. If the remaining time is not greater than 0 then what should you do? Calculate everything. Okay. Calculate p dot ct which will be equal to the current time. Then calculate the turn around time again. Again very very simple p dot ct minus arrival. Then calculate the waiting time. Waiting time is p dot t at minus p dot b t. Then the total ct will be calculated. Total t at will be calculated. And once you are done with that I can say completed count plus plus. I am basing it on the completed count. You can also check that your q is empty or not initially. If the q is not empty keep on going otherwise write down on completion complete count also this works exactly the same. This is what we have to do. Let us quickly go over this. So the only change in the class was that I need the remaining time because it is a preemptive approach. Then we say sort the array. We can easily sort the array in this algorithm because we have to pick whatever has arrived and put it in the ready queue. Create the ready queue all the items initially are 0. The selected index is also 0 because I have not selected any process as of now. You can make it minus 1 also totally up to you. While the completed count is less than the number of processes we have we keep on going and selecting the process whatever has arrived before or at the current time added to the queue and index plus plus. After addition we check is the q empty. If the queue is empty it means that at the current time no process arrived. So I need to update the current time and skip the iteration because no other processes needed. In case it was not empty I will remove the first process from the queue. Check the execution time how long will it execute for the remaining time or the total time quantum. Whatever is minimum pick that and then update the remaining time of the process. Even time on Gantt chart will be updated by the execution time once you are done with that. Before adding this current process back to the queue you still have to check has any other process arrived. If any other process has arrived added back to the queue and increment the index. After adding those processes check for my current process is the time greater than 0. If it is greater than 0 added back to the queue. If it is not greater than 0 it simply means all the job is done and simply need to calculate all the attributes and do not ever add the process and then increment the completed count and you are done with the algorithm. Is this clear everyone any doubt at the moment. Round Robin is important so please go through it very carefully. With this we are done with the class I will go over the midsum pattern also so that you are not confused. Till then if you have any questions you can put them down in the chat or ask me. So in the midsum that we have we will have 20 questions coming from intro to the revisiting oops. I do not want to include concurrency because it will be the very last class we do and some of you might not be thorough with that. So intro to OS to revisiting oops is the complete syllabus. In the 20 questions that you have only one question is the coding question. It will be of 10 marks it can be little more also maybe 15 but idly it is of 10 marks. This question is from any of the scheduling algorithms which we have learned so far. I am telling you right away shortest remaining job first is not very important. Then coming to the other 19 questions the other 19 questions can be of three types either you can be asked the output of a particular program or they might be a theory question or they might be a numerical question. The theory question can be scenario based also. Let us suppose you are running the as jf and I am drawing a grand chart in preemptive nature. So if p1 p2 p3 are the process and p3 is running and it is preemptive in nature which process would arrive next. This kind of question can be asked which means directly you might not be asked the average weight time average turnaround time rather questions on the grand chart might be asked. And these NCQs might be single correct also might be multi correct also. And again the questions are like easy questions two marks difficult question four marks for medium questions four marks and difficult questions six marks. This will be the bifurcation. Any doubt practice sheet I will give you but honestly if you go over whatever numeric class we have done in class and this assignment it is more than enough. So if you want to practice sheet let me know. Any doubt over here also encoding all the languages are supported. You can code idly you should code in C++, C python or Java right anything apart from this. Does anyone quote apart from this? It can be like shortest job first or I can say longest job first. So algorithm will be same the couple of changes like we have learned about priority. But the highest priority is the highest priority in the question it can be the lowest number is the highest priority like that. The rest everything remains exactly the same. Are you saying. Yes I heard that the rest is not supported all the basic coding languages like whatever is shown in the assignment that is available. So you must see the coding assignment also in the class right you see all the this language are supported you can try on that. That was a demo okay so you won't get that in exam I told you in that class itself that is just a demo to understand how OS is working you won't get that those questions questions are only theory output based on the revisiting goops class and then numericals that is all. This is for your reaching nothing else. In the first two classes I did some Linux commands right for showing how the OS works those coding questions will not come in exams that was just for a demo for you to see what happens exactly that is it any other questions regarding medicine. Any other questions. Any other doubts. Great. What do you mean. Whatever we have learned that okay like FCFS okay. Then, then round Robin. Priority. Did we learn anything else? No right? No that is not coming that is all. Okay. For this it is exam in exam it might be there. Any other doubts anyone. I can't hear you. Because for that we will see concurrency and then concurrency is not included we have some examples in concurrency also okay. Anything else? Anything else? Yes okay. I am not including the class object kind of questions because that topic will come under concurrency and some question might require the concurrency concept. So, there is no use of giving that hence these algorithms only okay. And then next ends that we have that will fully based on concurrency and coding. Again, please remember guys ends will be a coding heavy exam. So, make sure you score the most in medicine semester. It is comparatively much easier than in the ends. Okay. Try to score the best marks in medicine. It is mostly a theoretical paper. Practice the this new medical also in case you need help you can explain what's up. None of the questions will have partial marking okay. Now in case you are not marked present for today's class please send a notch I will mark you present. We are done with the class in case you have any doubt please ask. Ways por ti. All of you who have nash please come forward with your ID card. Ways por ti. What do you say? I mean the coding question. Whatever it is for today's class. Ways por ti. Just wait a minute. Ways por ti. Ways por ti. Wait a minute. Dakshith. Dakshith. Manasveni. Manasveni. Vivek. Vivek Sarate. Sarika Sharma. Sarika Sharma. Deepan Sarkar. Krishika Josi. Nippon. Nihar. Nihar. Nihar. Nihar Dahake. Devansh Singh. Devansh. Please come forward with your ID card. Nithuradi. Aasthik Mishra. Arun Murthy. Kunal Jaswal. Asutullah Hussein. Akang Shah. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Venkata. Ragwesh. Devansh Uraj. Shivangi Agrawal. What was your role? Wait a minute. 069. Devansh Singh. I.D. card. You will have to get your ID cards. Any kind of ID proofs? You. Who? Who? Who? Who? Who? Who? Who? Who?