Let me just fix this first. Let me know when everybody can see my screen. Quickly, I will share a notebook with you guys. We will cover the concepts directly from this and also look into the technical details of it. I have shared an notebook with you guys. You can kind of open it and create a copy of it if you want to work directly on it. If you want to work side by side. Now you tell me, as you mentioned you have studied Numpy already right. What is Numpy? What is Numpy and why do I need it? Why do I need a Numpy area? Why can't I simply use Python list? Why do we need Numpy areas? Sorry? Yes. Numpy areas or NPRs are fast. Why is fast good? Why do we need fast? Why can't we operate in slow areas or slow lists? Why fast is good? What is the problem that areas are solving? One comment that I got is that we will be working with large datasets that require large datasets. We don't have a whole day to do those computations. We use Numpy areas. That is relatively fast. That is the purpose that Numpy areas solve. Why are they fast? Why are they fast? What is happening under the hood? That makes them fast. Vectorization, like you can do vectorized operations. What is vectorization? Be a little louder so that I can hear. What is vectorized operation? Yes. I can apply an operation on the elements of an array simultaneously. For example, let's say I have a list L1 and this contains 1235. Now, I want to create a list L2 that is just the square of these elements. If I had to do this using traditional Python method, not using Numpy, how would I do that? How can I create this list? I would have created a list called L2 empty list. I would have iterated over list 1. I would have said 4i in L1. What is i here? What is i represent? Element of the list. For example, 1. This is the element of the list. We start with i here. What would have been the next step? If I want to square i, can I do L2 dot append? I squared. This is how I square an element in Python. Yes or no? So 1 by 1, it would have appended the square of every element that is 1, then 2 squared is 4, 3 squared is 9, 16 and 25. But you see the problem with this. We are doing everything 1 by 1. Right now there are just 5 elements. What if I had 5 million elements? Wouldn't this have been a very slow process? Because I would have to iterate over each element 1 by 1 till how many times? Till 5 million times. Isn't that way too long? So this problem is solved using vectorization. Where you can use vectorized functions which directly square or directly apply the function on top of every element. Is that clear? Is the concept of vectorization clear and how does it make things fast? Now you are not doing step by step. You are doing everything in one go. Agreed? Yes or no? Any confusion? Any doubts in this? Another reason why NumPy is fast, NumPy is fast because the underlying code is written in C language, which is a low level language, which makes the implementation fast. So this is hardware optimization. We will not go much detail into it. We will just directly look at the applications of NumPy array. So these are the very basics of NumPy that I hope would have been covered in your previous sessions. Any doubts, any questions before I move forward? Everybody good? Even at the back? Cool. Now let's start looking into multiple functions that NumPy array is support. Before even I go there, NumPy is a Python library to use its functionalities to use its offering. I need to import the library first. Everybody agrees with this? How do I import a library? I simply use the keyword import, name of the library. And why have I done as NP does anybody know what purpose does this solve? Right. Anyone else? Why have I used as NP? What purpose is it solving? I could have simply done import NumPy also. So you notice the word NumPy is a little long, right? Every time I have to use any function that belongs to the NumPy library, I would have had to do NumPy dot function name. So every time I imported or every time I wanted to use any function that is present in NumPy, I would have to write the word NumPy and then dot and then the function name. So to shorten the word NumPy, I gave it a aliased or I gave it a shorter name, which is NP. So now NP is a little easier to write. Yes or no? So that's the only purpose which aliases solving or as whatever name you want to give is solving. So you can give it anything, you can just call it n as well. I have done NP because standard, you can give n also, that's also fine. But the thing is you'll have to use everywhere n going forward. Is this clear? Okay, any questions anyone? Right, left, back. Cool. Let's look at first function that we are going to use in today's case study, np dot load TXT. Have you ever heard of this function before? Anyone? As a what does, like when you read the name load TXT, what do you understand from it? Right, what does the word load mean to load something, right? To load something and TXT, what does TXT tell you? TXT tells you that whatever you want to load is actually a text file. So basically load TXT is a function that lets you load dot TXT files into your system. And why do I need to load it for the first place? Like why do I need to load it? Okay, anyway else. I have what is the task, what are we trying to do? What are we trying to do at a very high level? What are we trying to achieve? No, at a higher level, like what's the scope of the project? Why are you reading the text file in the first place? Why? Why are you doing everything? So the fundamental goal or the fundamental problem that we are trying to solve is to kind of analyze the data. Yes or no? There is certain data that is available which I need to analyze and extract insights from it. What will I do with these insights then? What can I do with these insights? Let's say I have data about Flipquad, right? I am working at Flipquad, right? And I figure out that the sales of iPhones are going down. Now what do I do with this information? Optimize inventory, okay? What else? Maybe order less iPhones going forward because sales are going down. What else? What else can I do with this information? Inventory, okay. What else? Sorry? Now I have figured out the sales of iPhones are low. One thing you are saying that further deep down figure out where exactly are we losing on the sales, okay? Deep dive. Why sales are going down, okay? But how is that helped? Like what? Even if I do that, what will happen? Let's say I figured out in Bangalore, the sales are going down. Now what? Now what will you do with this information? Yes. So based on the information or based on the insights that you have extracted from your data, you are going to take certain business decisions that are going to help your business. One such business decision is optimize inventory, okay? In the short term, you stop ordering or you order less iPhones so that you are able to manage inventory based on your sales. So that sales are going down, you do not stop a lot of iPhones and they are just putting, keep staying in your warehouse as is, you know, just lying there and nobody is buying them. So you have taken a business decision to optimize your inventory. Second business decision that you have figured out, do a bit of extra marketing. Do extra marketing of iPhones, maybe start YouTube ads, start newspaper ads, etc etc. Do extra marketing to, so that we boost the sales. So from this data that you extracted from the insights that you extracted, like the sales of iPhones are going down, you took certain business decisions that are going to help out your business. Is the inventory clear on that? So what is the fundamental goal that we are trying to solve? We are trying to extract insights so that we can take business decisions which will help my business grow. Yes or no? Any confusion in this, any doubts? Everybody? So what is the goal that I am trying to do? Do data analysis? Extract insights? Take business decisions. Help business grow. What happens when you help the business grow? Your salary grows. Right? So fundamentally, we are incentivized to help the business grow. So now you see that I want to solve this whole thing. The fundamental part of it or the basic unit of this whole process is what? Data. And data exists somewhere else. Data exists usually in your data warehouses. Data exists in your SQL tables. Data exists in your random TXT files. Data could exist in your CSV files. So this data exists somewhere else. To do this data analytics, you will have to bring it to your system. Before you do any kind of analysis, you will have to bring it to your laptop. Then only you will be able to do the data analytics. And how can you do that? For example, if it's a TXT file, you can do that using low TXT function. Does that make sense? So do I need to use the NP.Low TXT in the first place? So I need to bring the data into my system so that I can do analytics. So that I can extract and site so that I can make business decisions. But the very first step is to bring the data to my system. And I can do that using NP.Low TXT. Is everybody clear on this? Anyone has any doubts? So let's look at the syntax for this. So I've created a dummy file, a random file just to show you how does low TXT work. So what is this index? I do NP.Low TXT. And then mention the file name. And then there is a column called data type. So this tells Python what is the data type of the content of this file that you're trying to read? If you're reading dem, dem, dem, dem, dem data or TXT, you're telling Python that a data type of its contents. What are its contents? It's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. The data type of its content is integer. And then I'm simply printing it. And if you see it has printed it in a Numpy Reformer. Is this clear? Any doubts, any confusion in the syntax? Anyone? Any questions, anyone? If not, if there are no questions, can you help me with this? Can you try to answer this? How would you load data from a file named grades.txt containing float numbers into a Numpy array? How would you load the data from the file grades CXT? And the it contains float numbers. So he says that I do Numpy.loadtxt. What's next? What should I do next? What should I do next? Everyone? File name. What is the name of the file? What else? So we have kind of done half of the part. We have loaded the file name grades or TXT. But there's one more part that is left. It says that the data type should be float numbers. So how do I handle that? How do I tell Python that the data type is float? So I explicitly mentioned using the d type parameter. d type stands for data type. d type equal to float. Is this clear? Any doubts, any confusion in this? If there are any questions, please ask now. When we move to the case study, we will use these functions only. Then I don't want a blank face. I want everybody to answer. How should I use the float to solve this case study? Any questions in this syntax or this function altogether? Cool. Right now there's no grades.txt file on my system. So even if I run it, I will get an error. But hypothetically if the file existed, this would have been the same text. Everybody clear? Cool. Next we look at array attributes.shape and dot nm. What does dot shape give me? What does dot shape tell me? Okay. So he's saying number of rows and columns. Okay. Anyone else? What does shape tell me? What does shape tell me? Nobody knows, I think we have, I think you told me that we have covered numpy. So everybody agrees that it's rows and columns. Let's say this is your array. What is the shape of this? 3,3. What is the first three? What does the first three tell me? Number of rows. And this tells me number of columns. Let's look at one more. What is the shape for this? 2D array, consider it 2D array only. What is the shape for this? Sorry. So how do I write it? 2,3. Okay. For 2D arrays, your point is correct. Shape tells me rows and columns. But are we only limited to two-dimensional arrays? Can there be more than two dimensions? So then where does the concept of rows and columns go? Tell me. Tell me, come on. Before events are coming to that, this one more thing, dot n-dim. What does n-dim tell me? Number of dimensions. Yeah, any questions? What is the number of dimensions of this array? What is the number of dimensions if I do dot n-dim? What should I get? 2. Why 2? Why 2, folks? Why do I get 2 when I do a dot n-dim? Anyone on the left side has any idea? Why is it 2 when I do dot n-dim? Because there are just two dimensions. No. There's rows and columns. One dimension represents rows. Other represents columns. So there are two dimensions. But now you look at this array. Can you tell me how many dimensions does this have? 3. How is it 3? 3. Okay. So let's take a look at from out to in. We have this array, right? 1,2. We have another 3,4. This is inside another array, right? So this becomes your first dimension. This becomes your second dimension. And this whole thing is another inside one more array. So this becomes the third dimension. Is this clear? Should I repeat this? Clear to everyone? Are you sure? Okay. So this was 3 dimensions. Now can you tell me the shape for this? What is the shape for this? Because the concept of rows, columns now fails here, right? We don't have rows and columns. We have a 3-dimensional array. How does a 3-dimensional array look like? It should have 3 axis. A 3D object. Tell me how do you figure out the shape for this? I hope the array is clear to everyone, right? Clearly visible? What should be a shape of this array? Try at least, try. It doesn't matter if you are wrong, but try matters. Sorry? What did you say? Okay. One answer I got 2, 2, 2. What's your name? Sorry? Sarvagya. Sarvagya says 2, 2, 2. Anyone else? 1, 2, 2. What's your name? Home says 1, 2, 2. Okay? This is home. This is Sarvagya. Anyone else? Anyone else? Any other answer? How many of you agree with Sarvagya 2, 2, 2? Raise your hands. Okay? How many of you agree with home 1, 2, 2? Only home agrees with home. Okay. Okay. Let's look at it. Let's look at it from inside out. So this was my array. We'll try to break it. 1 by 1. So, see carefully. So we go from out, from inside to outside. Inside the like the innermost arrays. We have 4 innermost arrays, right? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, right? We have 4 innermost arrays, right? How many elements are, what is the shape of this? Everybody has 2 elements, right? So this contributes, and this is the innermost layer. If I have this comma, this comma, this if I have to fill, the last represents, this is axis 0, axis 1, axis 2. This represents the innermost axis or the second axis. So every element has, every array has 2 elements. Yes or no? So this contributes to the second axis as 2. Is this clear? Any questions on this? The innermost arrays, we looked at the innermost arrays and counted the number of elements. If every one of them have 2 elements, so they contribute 2. Now, let's look at the next outer array. This was the innermost array, right? This was the innermost array. The next array is this, right? Isn't the next array this? 1, 2, 3, 4, right? This is the next array. Now inside this outer element, similarly we have one more, 5, 6, 7, 8. Now tell me inside this outer most outer array, this black one, how many elements are there? How many elements are there inside this array? Yeah. How they are 2? How 2? What is the first one? Right. So this is the first element, this whole 1, 2. Look at the previous case. In 1, 2, 1 was the, like the first one was the first element, and second one was the second element. Similarly, think of this as, let's say this is k. This is k, and this is m. Can I write like this? k, m. Can I write like this k, m? So this k is the first element, m is the second element. So that means this 1, 2 is the first element, 3, 4 is the second element. Similarly for this as well. So how many elements does the intermediate array is contributing? How many elements does the intermediate array contributing? Two elements, right? So the intermediate array, the intermediate array, not the intermortional. Now, finally, let's look at the one that is extremely like the outermost, right? So the intermediate array is the intermediate array, not the innermost. Now finally, let's look at the one that is extremely, like the outermost. Right? Which is this bigger bracket. Now you tell me how many elements does the outermost array, like the extreme, like extreme, extreme outer square brackets, this one, contribute. How many elements does it contribute? Yeah, how many? How two? What is the first element? This block is the first element. This whole block is the first element. Similarly, this whole block is the second element. Yes or no? Everybody agrees? Is there anyone who has confusion? If yes, please ask. Everybody agrees? So that means the outermost axis is also contributing to. So what is the shape of the array? Two comma, two comma, two. Right? So this is what shape tells me. How many elements does each of the axis contribute? In a 3D, there are three axis. Axis 0, axis 1, axis 2. If you want to visualize, this is how it should look in three dimensions. Right? So 1, 2, 3, 4, which was the part of the first block. This block 1, 2, 3, 4 is in one plane. 5, 6, 7, 8 is another plane. And they are together combined in the third dimension. This is how it should look like in 3D when you kind of actually visualize it. Is this clear? Any questions? Any questions, anyone? So if you have to answer this question, if you have an array of this, what would my array.shape contribute? So what will be the value of my array.shape? What will be the value of my array.shape? 2, 2, 2, we just saw. What about my array.endim? Three-dimensional array? So the answer will be three. Is this clear? Any confusion? Is any doubts, anyone? Cool. So let's move to slicing. I hope everybody knows the basic concept of indexing and slicing, right? So if I quickly ask you, if I quickly ask you, this is my array. If I quickly ask you, before we go forward, tell me how many dimensions and what is the shape. How many dimensions? How many dimensions? Two dimensions, everyone agrees. What is the shape of the array? Yeah. Three-comer-three. So if I want to visualize it, I can do it this way. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18. These are my rows. And what does this represent? The columns. Now quickly tell me, how do I access 15? If I want 15 as the output, how do I access that? How should I write that? Let's say this is my example array, eX array. How should I, how will I get the value of 15? Square bracket, okay. Y1, Y1. Yes, it's zero-based indexing, so this is the zero-throw. It's the first row, the second row. So one, when I do this, example array, square bracket 1. What will I see? What will be my output? This row, I will see, 13, 14, 15. Everybody agrees with this? Yes or no? Everybody, even at the back? If I do square bracket 1, I'll get the first row. Now if I, I want the value of 15. Should I put a comma here? Or something else? How should I, how will I get the value to? Square bracket of what? Square bracket, then what should I put inside the square bracket? What should I put inside the square brackets? I should put two, right? Zero, one, two. So this should give me 15. Any questions, any confusions? See, if this is my array, if I want to extract 15, I can simply do one of two. So learning. So you see, I get 15. When I do just one, I get 13, 14, 15, which is the second row. And then when I do two, I get 15. Actually, can there be any other way? Can there be an alternate way? Any thoughts? Have you guys learned about this? What does this mean? What does this mean? What does this represent? Like the pie before the comma? What does this pie represent? The starting part of what? All rows. So this part represents rows. What about this part? And when you don't put any value, it assumes, like when you don't put any value, it assumes that from the start till the end. That means all the rows and all the columns. So that means, if I want, let's say, all the rows, but I want the first column. So what should I put here? All the rows in the first column. So I have written like colon and then I put a comma. What should I put here so that I get the first column? So what does this tell me? All the rows and the first column. If I wanted first three rows, what modifications should I do? If I want first three rows? Anyone? Three rows. How should I change this? After colon, what should I write? Think again. Three or two? Why three? Yes. So I'll put three. Why? Because this last value is exclusive. I only get zero, one and two. So I have three indexes. Is this clear? The same can be applied for columns as well. So this was the basics of indexing and slicing. One more concept that we'll use. Transpose. Everybody studied math in 1112, right? So what do you mean by transpose of a matrix? What does transpose look like? 147. What about others? What's the next row? 258. 369. So what did we do here? We converted rows to columns and columns to rows. 147 was the first column. Now what is 147? This has become the row. Similarly for 258 and similarly for 369. Yes or no? Any confusion in this? Any doubts anybody? T.M. Now that this is clear. How do you can do that in Python? You simply can use the dot T. Dot T tells Python that you need to transpose. You can convert row to columns and columns to rows. But there's one more function called np.transpose. That also does the same thing. Either you can use dot T or np.transpose. Now one more question. Let's come back to a 3D array. Can you tell me what will be the transpose of this? How will you find, like, do, can I even find the transpose of this? So you tell me, you told me that it's rows to columns, columns to rows. Now there's a one more dimensional dimension. How will you do the transpose? Think about it. Take two minutes. Everybody think how can I do the transpose of it? How will we do the transpose? Anybody have any idea? Quickly tell me. How many axis do I have in this? So when we had two axis earlier, when it was a two dimensional array, we had two axis. Let's say axis 0 axis 1. When you did a transpose, one became 0 and 0 became 1. No, no, no, no, no. Now that you have three axis, let's say x, y, z. Can I do something like this? I can keep x axis and do only a transpose between y and z. Is that a possibility? Is there any other possibility? Only this. What is the other possibility? Yes. So I can keep the y constant and transpose x and z. Anything else I can do? I can keep the z constant and transpose x and y. Yes or no? So how many combinations did I try? And is there a general formula to find these combinations? N, C, R or N, C, 2? Because we are taking two at a time. What is the value of N here? Three C, two, that means three combinations are possible. So I can do multiple kind of transpose operations in this case. Is this clear? Any doubts? Now your homework is to figure out how will you implement in code? One hint that I can give you is you can use np.transpose. Go home, read about np.transpose. How you can do that? Any doubts, any confusions? Any questions, anybody? Next is data type conversion. In this array, what do you see? Like what is the data type of the contents of the array? What is the content of the array? How do you figure out its strings? I am asking how do you figure out whether this 1, 2, 3, 4 that you see highlighted string? Quotations. Also you see when you print it using .d type, it tells me that the d type is u1. U means unicode string in np and 1 means it is 1 bit. So this d type also tells me that this is a string value. But are these actually stringing? These are numerical values, right? 1, 2, 3, 4, integer values. So how do I do a type conversion? I use a parameter called d type and I simply pass int into it. Now you see the same array, the string numbers has been converted into int 64. Is this clear? Any confusion into this? Any questions, folks? Why do you think it is important to do a data type conversion? Why should I do it in the first place? What is the need for it? But why? Why do we need to convert? Why can't we just keep strings? Because when you deal with numerical values, you might need to do certain operations. You might need to add the numbers. You might need to subtract the numbers. You might need to calculate the average of it. Can I calculate the average of four strings? So I would need to kind of convert them into integer values and then compute the average. So to perform mathematical operations, I need a data type conversion. Next is aggregate functions. Are you guys aware of the aggregate functions? What does aggregate means? Let's say I have the list of numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. What do you mean by aggregate of these? So in a way, kind of combining them into a single value, combining them into a single value, that's what aggregation is. So what type of values can I convert them into? I can take the average of it. What will be the average of these? So I can simply add them 5 into 6 by 2 15, 15 by 2, 7.5, 15 by 5, sorry. 3 will be the average. What else I can do with this? I can do a median. What's the median here? How do you find the median? Is this already sorted? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5? The central value is 3, right? Can I also take the sum of this? Sum is also an aggregate value. Can I take the number of unique elements as the count? How many unique elements are there? How many unique elements are there? So that is also an aggregate value. So count is also an aggregate value. How many elements are there again 5? So these are some of the aggregate values that you can use your array and convert them into a single value. So that's what we're going to see next. Some of the functions. NP.me. I hope everybody knows that it calculates their arithmetic mean. NP.sum that adds all the elements. Min and max finds you the minimum and maximum. So what is the argument? What is argument and argmax? Any idea? Argmin and argmax. Anybody on the right? So what is the mean then? What is the mean? Different between mean and argmin then. Do you know argmin? Yes. So in an empire array, let's say this is the empire array, right? What is the minimum value here? What is the minimum value in this array? A little louder. What is the minimum value? Minus 7. Now what argmin will do? Argmin will return the index of the minimum value. What is the index of the minimum value? 0, 1, 2, 3, 4. So argmin will give you the index of the minimum value. So the output of argmin will be 4. If I ask you argmax, what will be the output of argmax then? What will be the output of argmax? Why 1? Why 1? Because argmax will return the index of the maximum value. So output of argmax will be 1. Is this clear? I think now is anybody, any questions? So simple implementation of all these. You have a numerical array 10, 20, 30, 40, 50. We are first calculating the sum. We are then calculating the mean. We are then calculating the maximum and there will be calculating the argmax. So quickly tell me without looking at the answers, what should be the output of np.argmax here? What should be the output of np.argmax? Everybody, what should be the output of np.argmax? 4. Why? Because the maximum value is at the fourth index. So this will give me the maximum value. Now there is one more function called np.unique. This simply gives you the unique elements. I have created an array called categorical array. This contains values like red, blue, then again red, green, blue and red. So can anyone tell me what are the unique values in this array? What are the unique values inside this array? No, not the count. What are the values? Red, blue, green. So these are the unique values. Exactly. This is what np.unique will give me. But does anybody notice here a parameter called return counts equal to true? What could this do? So it will return the values as well as the counts. So for example, how many times has red occur? Red occurs three times. So because of using return count, I will get three here. What about blue? Blue occurs two times. I will get two. What about green? Green occurs only once. So when you do return counts equal to true, it returns basically two values. One is the unique elements and the respective counts. You see, I have stored them in two values. First is unique elements, first parameter, or second variable is counts which shows the counts. Once you print this, you see blue, green, red and its respective count, two, one, three. Is this clear? Any confusion in this? So basically it's a function that tells you the count, the unique elements and its respective counts. If I set these two false, what will happen? If I set these two false, then what will I get? Just the unique values. Cool. Okay, sorting. Everybody is clear with sorting, right? What is sorting? What do you mean by sorting? Yeah, go on. Are you changing the values in a given order? So can you sort this value? What will be the sorted output of this? What will be the ascending order sorting of this? Minus seven? Twelve. This is one. Minus seven, one, five, twelve and everybody agrees this will be the sorting order. Any questions on this? So this is what NP dot sort will give you. Now there's also a function called NP dot arg sort. Can anyone think what will be the output? Now that you know what NP dot arg max gave NP dot arg mean gives, what will NP dot arg sort give me? Yeah. So NP dot arg sort will give me the index of these values instead of the sorted values. Let's look at it. Let's look at the original array. Twelve, thirteen, one, five, minus seven. What is the index here? Zero, one, two, three, four, right? Their final sorted array looks like this. Minus seven, one, twelve, sorry, five, twelve and thirteen. Now what is the index of minus seven in the original array? What is the index of minus seven in the original array? Four. What about one? What is the index of one in the sorted array? What about the initial array? What about five? What about twelve? What about thirteen? This is the output of NP dot arg sort. So NP dot arg sort will give you the index of the sorted array and not the actual sorted array. Is this clear? Are you sure? If this is clear, can you answer this question for me? If you have an array of names and their corresponding edges, how could NP dot arg sort help you display the names in order of the edges? For example, if you have names, let's say I have an array, Nampa array called names, Rahul, Shivam, Raj, and Priya. I have these four names. I have their corresponding edges as well. Raj is twenty years old. Shivam is nineteen years old. Raj is thirty seven. And Priya is, let's say, twenty one. Now I want them in the ascending order, the names in the ascending order of the edges. Who is the youngest of them all? So I want Shivam to come first. Who's next? Rahul? Who's next? Priya and finally Raj. So, can, how can I do that? Can I even think of it? How can I get this order? How can I get this order, folks? Any thoughts? Anyone? On the right? Anyone? Any thoughts? How will I get this order? The hint that I can give you is that you can use R-X-Fortier. Any thoughts? You can ask this, you can get all this question in the interview as well. So, how will you think about it? Yeah. Very slow approach. One by one you are doing. How will you use NMPI? You are setting NMPI. How can you use NMPI? Hint again, NMPI. Talks what? Any thoughts, anyone? Everybody agrees that these two areas are aligned like the first value corresponds to Rahul's second to Shivam third to Raj and fourth to Priya. First step, what? Achar, by what value or by what parameter I want them to be sorted at? By the edges? So, can I do NMPI.org sort of edges? If I do that, what will be my output? If I do NMPI.org sort of edges, what will be my output? 1, 0, 3, 2. Everybody agrees with this? Why? Because the smallest element is on the first index 19. The next figure is of the 0th index 20. The next figure is of the 30th index 21. And the largest element is at the second position. Now, what are these? What are these values? These are indexes. Can I pass these indexes? Can I pass these indexes directly into this name's array? Can I do, let's say, let me call this S i sorted indexes? Can I do something like this? Names, square bracket, S i. Now, NMPI will read this as that you want array in this particular order. 1, 0, 3, 2. What is the element at the first position in the name's array? What element exists in the first position in the name's array? Shivam? What is at the 0th position? Rahul? Then, Priya and Raj. Is this what I was expecting? Shivam Rahul, Priya and Raj? Is this clear? How you can use NMPI and Rxort to achieve this? S will clearly write the code for it as well. So, first step, Rxort, the H. Let me create the two arrays. Names is NMPI.array. Rahul, Shivam and Priya. You have to make sure that they are NMPI arrays. You cannot do this operation with lists. Only NMPI arrays allow you. Rahul is 20. Raj is 37. Shivam is 19 and Priya is 21. First step, Rxort, the A. So, I can say S i which we call it NMPI.array. Pass the R short output or the Rxort array to the A. Before I do that, let me print S i also. Then finally print names of S i. See, I get 2031 because I change the order, I think. Bhatya. Shivam, Rahul, Priya and Raj. Is this clear? How you can use the NMPI.array? Any doubts? Any confusion? Shall we move ahead? Any questions? Because make sure, when we go to the K study, I want responses from your end. And we will be using these functions only. Nothing else. So, the last concept before we go on a break is masking. Now, let's say, if I have to filter certain values, let's say I have an array or I have a list, python list. 10, 20, 30, 40, 50. Now, I want an output, I want an L2, all the elements that are more than 35. How will you do it? The traditional python list. If I want all the elements, which are more than 35. How can I do that? Any thoughts? Anyone? Anyone at the back? How can we extract the elements that are more than 35? Yes. Okay. We will come to that, but how do you do traditional python list? Without the NMPI.array? So, I will create a L2 list. Then I can use a for loop. I can say for I in L1. What is I represent here? Each of the elements, 1 by 1. Then I can put a condition if I more than 35. Yes. And then L2 would depend. I. Yes or no? But this is a 1 by 1 sequence. You will have to check for 10. You will have to check for 20. You will have to check for 30, 40 and so on. But with the help of NMPI.array, you can do something known as masking. So, instead of a list, I can create an AALA NMPI.array, which is again the same thing. 10, 20, 30, 40, 50. Now NMPI allows me to directly put the condition. I can say the condition as AAR are greater than 35. So, whatever elements that are more than 35 will be marked as true. Rest will be marked as false. So, if I print the condition, what I should see is 10 greater than 35. Is 10 more than 35? So, what will I get? So, what I should see is 20 more than 35? False. 30 more than 35? False. 40 more than 35? True. 50 more than 35? True. Now, I have a NMPI.array of false is and truth. I can directly pass this inside the array. Let's say this is condition. So, I can do AAR of condition. Python C only those elements that are marked as true. Rest the false ones are masked. That means, you have put a mask on it, Python cannot see that. Python will only see the values that are true. What are the values that are true? The last two indexes, you get 40 and 50 as output. Is this clear? So, this is the concept of masking and we will use it in the case study as well. So, you see what we are doing? We have the array. We just put a Boolean mask. Of we just put a condition that data to filter is more than 35. And then, I have printed the condition. You see false, false, false, true, true. And then, I have simply passed this or applied the mask directly inside the square brackets. Now, once you do that, I only see the relevant elements. Is this clear? Any questions anyone? So, it is 313. Let's go for a 5 minute break. And once we come back, we will start discussing the case study, where you will be working as a data scientist at Fitbit. And we need to extract certain insights and answer some business questions. What we will do is we will use only these functions that we have studied. So, if you have understood that well, you should be able to apply it in a real well setting as well. Cool. So, break time. Let's go for a 5 minute break. If there is anyone who has any questions, you can see back and ask. Rest if you want to use rest room or you want to have water, you can go. Let's come back by 318. Thank you. Thank you. I think I shared during the class only. Okay, I can do that again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Cool. Is everybody back? Let's get started again. Okay. So, folks, I missed this question that somebody put in the chat. Devange. So, Devange is a question. What if there are different number of elements in all the innermost arrays? How would we define them? I think he is talking about this. Where is the one? Is the one present here? Okay, okay. Okay. Okay. So, Devange, the answer to the question is, okay, let me bring that up here. So, let me show you what happens. Let's say, I do the 7. So, you see, setting an element for the sequence, you get an error. It says that it has an inhomogeneous value after two dimensions because this has different dimensions. One more way I can show you, let's say, Np dot array, 1,2 and the other one just says 3. See, it doesn't allow that. It has to be a rectangular array. That means it has to be have the same values. Is that clear? Cool. Any other questions? Any other doubts, anyone? Any other doubts, anybody? Okay. Let's move to the case study part. Now, what you can do is, what I would want is make a copy of the notebook that I shared with you and try to, you know, code along. So, what is the case study? So, imagine yourself as a working as a data scientist at Fitbit. So, what is a Fitbit? What is Fitbit? So, it's a company that builds devices for fitters lacking. It could be smart watches, it could be smart rings, which as you trap your fitness and health signals. Okay. So, you want to analyze the data for designing the watch. You want to find out insights from this user data that can help business make customer oriented decision for the product design. So, think of it this way. Let's say you have a Fitbit. What are the values or what are the signals that you would like to see in a Fitbit? Tell me. What are the signals that you would like to see? If you are buying of it, Fitbit, for word reasons, what are you specifically interested in? What metrics are you interested in looking at? What do you think? Why does someone buy Fitbit? Partrate. Caldysbund. Somebody said something? Step size or step count? Number of hours you slept? Anything else? Anything else that you would like to track? Anything else? What else we can track? Can we track the oxygen level, SPO2, that is called blood oxygen level? How much oxygen is in your blood? Can you also track activity status? Let's say if throughout the day I have just walked 500 steps. Am I active or am I inactive? If I have walked more than 10,000 steps, then in that case I am active. So at a daily level, what is my activity status? That can be one thing that I can track. So these are some of the things that I would like to track. And you have been given a data that has data for around 100 days, around 96 days. And multiple values on each day. For each day what was your step count? For each day what was your mood? Were you neutral? Were you sad? Were you happy? How many calories did you burn that day? How many hours did you sleep? And finally were you active or you inactive? So that's what the data that you have. And it's present in a file called Fitbit.txt. So if you take a look here. First thing first, I am kind of importing numpy. And then this is command called exclamation mark GDOWN. That means it tells the Google collab to download a file from a Google Drive link, which is this. So the file fit that Txt is present in this Google Drive link. And when you do that, when you do that GDOWN, it downloads it and stores it in your Google collab memory. So can you see fit.txt on your screen? You'll have to run the code to see fit.txt. Now what is the data type? What is the type of the file? Yeah? What is the type of the file? Text file. Now how should I load it? What function should I use? NP. NP. Loth Txt. So you see, I've used that. NP.Loth Txt. This is the path of the file. The file is present in the content folder and the name of the file is fit.txt. And the data type of each value is string. So when you load it, this is what you see. So the first column represents date, then step count, mood, calories burn, sleep hours, sleep hours and status. Now what is the data type of every element in the array? What is the data type of every element? String. But is that correct? Is string correct? Is string correct? Can I have step size as a string? Can I have calories burned, number of calories burned as string? So can I convert the data type of certain columns? Is it possible to have multiple data types in one single array? Is it possible to have multiple data types in one empire? Is it allowed yes or no? So the answer is no. Numpier array are homogeneous. What do I mean by homogeneous? That all the values have to be of the same data type. You cannot have certain values that are string and certain other values that are integer. Which data sector allows me to have multiple data types? Python lists. I can have multiple data types in a Python list, but I cannot have multiple data types in a Numpier array. Let's test this out. Let's say I create my list one. This is string. This is let's say float. This is integer. Now if I print list, I can see every element with its respective data type. So this is the same thing in quotation, again the floating point and 40. Now what would happen if I do np dot array of list one? What would happen? If I run this, what would happen? What would happen? Any thoughts? It will give an error. One answer is error. What else? What else would happen? Anything else like anyone has a different answer? Everything becomes string. So the answer is the second one. Python and Numpier by default converts everything into string. And you see the data type is unicode string, less than u, which is stands for unicode string. 32 means 32 bits. So everything gets converted into string. It does not give you an error. But Numpier makes sure that everything is homogeneous. By homogeneous, we mean that everything is of the same data type. Now if I want to check the shape of the data, how do I do that? Like I have the data file loaded. Now if I want to check the number of rows and number of columns, how do I do that? What attribute should I use? Or what parameter should I use to get the number of rows and number of columns? Data.Shap. Now once I do that, I get 96.6. Now what do you interpret with this? What do you mean by this? 96.6. So if you go to your business manager, what do you tell them? What do you tell them? Like there are 96 rows and 6 columns. That's what you're going to tell them? What are you going to tell them? Look at the data. What are you going to tell them? Data of last 96 days, okay? Data about what? 6 different features or 6 different attributes. So you're going to say that we have data for last 96 days of 6 different features. So that's what you're going to tell your boss. So there are 96 records and has 6 features. What are the features? The set ground, the call this bird, mood, activity set, etc. The end date. These are the values that you have. And of course, when you do data.end, you'll get two, right? Because rows and columns, two dimensions. Is this clear? How are you going to convey to a business stakeholder like your rows and columns? You're not going to say that we have 96 rows and 6 columns. They're going to come 96 rows of what? 6 columns of what? Is that clear? Cool. Now coming back, I hope like indexing and slicing is fine, right? If I want the first row, we can do data.0, data of 0. This will give me the first rows. If I want the first five rows, what should I do? If I want to look at the first five rows, what should I do? Sorry? If I want to look at the first five rows in my data. This is what pandas is, numpi. Yes, I'm going to do slicing. I can do 0 or I can leave it empty, colon 5. This will give me first five rows. What you said head will be used in pandas when we come to that. This is not a pandas data from this numpi area. Is that clear? So that comes in pandas. So I can do data colon 5. This gives me five first five rows of the data set. You can look at that, like date, step count, mood, etc., etc., the first five rows. Yes. Now you tell me, coming back to the question, are certain values that are represented as string correct? Like is the step count caldys burned? And number of hours slept, is it fine if I keep them as string? Or is it wrong? Tell me. Is it right or is it wrong to keep them as string? Be a little loud, be a little loud, I can see more here murmuring. Is it right or is it wrong? Okay, one says wrong, one says right. Why right? Okay. But what if I want to tell my user their average steps, step count for the whole 96 days? How will you do that? Will you be able to do that? We discussed that when, basically when we started, we discussed that what are we interested in? Like why do I need a fit bit? So that I can get my aggregate caldys burned over 96 days. What is my heart rate, minimum heart rate, maximum heart rate, average heart rate? What is the number of hours that I have slept, total number of hours I have slept in the month, something like that? So how will you convey those statistics to the user if everything is in swing? Is that possible? But eventually you will have to convert them in the end of the year, right? So that means we cannot keep them as string. We will have to convert it. So no, answer is no, we cannot keep them as string because there are certain values that require numerical computation. And for that we would need them to convert them into numerical values. So how do you do that? How do you do that? Okay, anybody has any thoughts? Let's say if I have this data, if I just print it. So if I want to communicate to my user their average step count, how will you do that? If I want to show them a fit bit, the average step count for the last 96 days, how will you do that? How will you do that? Any thoughts? As I say, let's see, things step by step. Let's think step by step. Let's think step by step. What is the first column? What is this column? What is this column? Let me call it as C. What is this column mood? What about this column? Calories burned, our slept, and activity status. Now, what is my goal? My goal is to convey to the user their average step count and then tell them whether it is low, high, or they should walk more, something like that. So to do that, what is the first step that I need to do? What is the first thing that I need to take out of the array? I want to calculate the average step count. We will take out the step count. First step is take out the step count. How will you take that out? If this is data, if you want the step count column, how will you get that? How will you do that? How do I do all rows? Then, comma, then what? So let us say this is step count. But this is still string. What is next? How do I convert it into integer? So where should I just put d type here or do I put it inside a function? What should I do? What I need to do is first convert again, this use np.array. This is np.array bracket d type integer. So this is one approach that you will convert in an array or in an integer value. Is there any other way that you can think of it? Think I will give you a hint, transpose. How will you do if I want to use transpose? How can I do that? What is the current shape of the dataset? 96.6 right? When I do data.transpose, what happens? When I do data.transpose, what happens? No, what happens to the dataset? Yeah, column becomes rows. So when I do this, my columns will become the rows. So what is my first column? So now what will be my first row? What is my second column? So what is my second row? So one, right? Now this is data.t. What's happening? Now this is data.t. Now you tell me how do I extract the stepcounds from here? What is stepcounds? It's a second row, right? How do I access the second row? Any thoughts? How do I get the second row? One, I can simply do data.transpose and get the first index. Yes or no? So let's look at both the approaches. So approach one is, let's say you do data, all colon and then one. So you get all the stepcounds and then you do NP.array, D type of integer. Yes or no? Now you see every value has become an integer. Alter rate is do a data.transpose, call it data.t and then extract the first index. And then you can do the same operation. Is this clear? Is this clear how you can extract the rows or extract the columns? And now whatever you want to communicate, if you want to communicate the other stepcounds, many of them stepcounds, maximum stepcounds, you can do that. Cool. Now look at this, look at this course index. Can anyone tell me what's happening? Can anyone tell me what's happening here? Can anyone think what's happening here? Any thoughts, anyone what's happening? Any idea, anyone? Anyone has any idea? Okay, let's come back. This was my dataset, right? Where I did a data.t, what happened? What is my first row become? Date, what does my second row become? What does my third row become? What does my fourth row become? So until the sixth row which is activity status. Now the first row itself represents the date. Second row represents all the stepcound values. Third row represents all the mood values and so on and so forth. So if I assign them, each of them are variable. So data.t outputs six rows. And if I put six different variables in front of them. Date, SC, mood, whatever till yes, equal to data or transpose. Then each of them will fall in the variable at the respective position. First one becomes date. Second one becomes goes into stepcound. Third one goes into mood. So on and so forth. Now when you do that, first, the first variable represents all the dates. Second variable represents all the stepcounds. Third represents all the mood count, all the mood values. So on and activity status represents all the activity status. So you can print and see. So first stepcound, the data and I will string and activity status. Any, any value that you want to, if you want to look at CalDISBURN, you will see all the CalDISBURN during the time. If you want hours of sleep, you can see all the hours of the sleep. Now, whatever data type conversion I want to do, I can do. If I want to convert stepcound into integer, I can do that. So you see, I have done data type conversion for stepcound. I have done data type confusion for CalDISBURN, data type change for CalDISBURN, data type change for hours of sleep. Is this clear? Any doubts, any questions, anyone? Does anybody has any doubts? Cool. Now, if it's clear, I want you to answer this question. Okay. Can you see this question at the bottom, very bottom? Can we extract the stepcounds when the mood was happy? So you need to tell me, you need to tell me what were the stepcounds where it go? What were the stepcounds when the mood of the user was happy? How will you do that? Yeah. Can we extract the stepcounds when the mood was happy? Of course, yes, the answer is yes, but how? How will you do that? I'm asked, he can't but how will you do that? Let's say I have two arrays, one is stepcound. I have two arrays stepcound and one is, let's say, mood. So what should be my syntax for me to extract all the stepcounds when the mood was happy? Condition, okay. The mood is what? How do I write that? How do I write that mood was happy? Can you be allowed to? Yes. mood equal to equal to this checks the equality. Double codes, happy. What is the second step? I do a print condition. What output should I see? A Boolean error. Wherever the mood was happy, I will see the values true. And wherever it was, no happy I'll see false. Now, how do I get the stepcound where this condition is true? Let's say, I have been able to write that already done. Can I simply do stepcound bracket conditions? This will give me all the values where the stepcound, where the mood was happy. That's exactly what we're going to do. So first condition, in fact, I've combined all of them. If I've combined all the three steps, what we did earlier. First step was condition. Condition was mood equal to equal to happy. Second was pass in the array. So I can simply say stepcound of condition. Or I can directly inside the bracket directly, right mood equal to both of the same thing. So you see, now I get all the values, all the stepcounds where the mood was happy. If you print this thing also, you should see the same. You see, 4732330, blah blah blah, all the same values. Clear? Any questions, anyone? Any doubts? Similarly, if you want to see where the mood was sad, you can do that. Now give me, if the things are clear, give me the answer to this question. Give me the calories when the stepcound was more than 5000. How will you do that? Calories point when the stepcound was more than 5000. How will you do that? Be a little out. What's the first step? What is the condition? I can say stepcound greater than 5000 and then directly pass inside the Cal, this one array. Or I can directly do this also, no? In one line, this is also fine. Yes or no? Any questions, anyone? So that's how you apply the masking concept. Again, checking for neutral things like that. Now look at here, when you want to apply multiple conditions, when the mood was either happy or neutral, so you write both the conditions separated by a pipe sign. What does this pipe sign mean? This means or what does or mean? What does or mean? When do I use or when I'm comparing to condition, when do I use or? What is the need for or logical or? Yes. So if any one of the conditions is true, either the mood is neutral or the mood is happy. If any one of them is true, I should get the stepcound further. What about and? Can I put and here by the way? Why? Yes. Either the mood can be neutral or it can be happy. It cannot be both. Like you cannot be sad and happy at the same time, right? You can either be sad or you can be either be happy. And it does not make sense in this case. If you do that, if I run this, what should I see by the way? If I run this, what should I see? M-T-R-A. You see, I get an M-T-R-A because this doesn't make sense. Any questions or any doubts, anyone? Is this clear? Okay. So we are trying to compare the stepcounds on bad mood days and good mood days. How can I do that if I want to compare the stepcounds on bad mood days and good mood days? Okay. Let's say you get the two errors. How will you compare them? How will you find whether on good days, when you have good mood, you have more stepcounds versus when you have bad mood? How will you compare? By subtracting the two errors, what will you get? Okay. So let's say there are 100 data points out of that 60 days I was happy. 40 days I was sad. So when I do this, how many stepcounds will I get? How many stepcound entries? How many stepcound entries will I get here? Can I minus them? Like can I minus 60 entries from 40? There are 20 extra notes. So that that that operation fails. How do I compare then? Sorry? Average. Average is one statistic. You can take average stepcound, average stepcound, when the mood was happy and average stepcound when the mood was sad. And then you can compare the two. Right? Okay. Now your study statistics, right? Tell me. If I have average stepcound as 5000 when I was happy and average stepcound as 4000 when I was sad. So can I affirmatively say that being happy, when I'm happy then my stepcounds are high. Okay. Is it to like 100% or can I affirmatively say that this is going to happen every day? Yes or no? Sorry? Can I say that when I'm happy my stepcound is going to be always higher. Sorry? Why no? That's what I'm asking. I'm happy in general do I have a higher stepcound? For me only. No, I'm talking about for me only. Like for the customer we have the data for. Can we always say that? Sorry? They can be out there okay? So how can we be certain whether this is actually true or this is by chance also? It could be the case that the data that I have for 96 days that is showing the pattern. Maybe if I take for another 96 days it could have a different pattern. How do I ensure or how do I certainly say that whether it's true or not? Yes, who's like that? Come on straight loudly. Yes. Did we study tea test in the last semester? Where we compare two averages, two groups. We want to do we compute a tea test, we have a tea stat. Corresponding to tea stat what do I get? A p value and if that p value is greater than the threshold value, that's 0.05. Then a reject mental hypothesis. If not then I failed reject mental hypothesis. What is mental hypothesis by the way? In this case can you tell me what is mental hypothesis? So I can say step counts is higher. Think again what does null mean? Nell hypothesis. What does fundamentally null hypothesis mean? Nell hypothesis means that between my two groups there is no change. The change between them is null or zero. So that means irrespective of what are the two groups? One group is being happy, another group is being sad. So the null hypothesis says, sorry. Sure, sure, please. Nell hypothesis says irrespective of my mood or the mood is independent of the step count. That means step count when happy average step count when happy is equal to step count when sad average. Or the difference between them is zero or null. SC happy or step count when I'm happy average step count when I'm happy. Minus step count when I'm sad is null or zero. This is what the null hypothesis is. Alternate hypothesis is that this is not equal to zero. Or you can say that SC happy is greater than SC sad. This is my alternate hypothesis. Then you conduct your T start P value and if it's more than alpha then you can say whether this is actually true or not. So just by looking at the average is I cannot comment having always being happy means that I'm going to have a higher step size or step count. Is that clear? So whenever you are getting getting asked this kind of questions always think in hypothesis testing direction. Nobody is going to ask you this simple question whether 5000 or more than 5000 or five fifth create student can also answer this. So when they're asking you for a data science or data knowledge roll figure out that they want to understand a broader concept from you. Is this clear? Now coming back. One step that we figured out that we're going to take the average step count when mood was happy. And average step count when mood was sad and then for now simple comparison. How will you find this average step count when the mood was happy and how will you find the average step count when the mood was sad. Quickly tell me the code you have to erase step count and mood how will you do that. Yes step count bracket. What will this give me? All the step counts when the mood was happy. Dot mean or I can say NP dot mean. Right this will give me the average values. Let's quickly write it out. So although I've already done that but I'll show you again. First find the step count when the mood is happy. A step count. Mood equal to equal to happy. And then what do I do? I simply apply the mean operation to it NP dot mean. Right. Now quickly tell me how well will I find the average step count when the mood is sad. Quickly quickly everyone. Step count what should I write in square brackets. Mood equal to be a little loud. What do I do next? NP dot mean. Right. So average step count when sad. Now how do I compare the two values? Sorry. I forget about it as now. If I want to compare two average values how do I do that? How do you compare? Is comparing a condition? Comparing a condition? How do you apply conditions in Python? If average step count happy is more than average step count sad. Simply print for now this is not correct. You should always have statistical test. You can simply say step count more than happy. Else not more than happy. So you can print the values also. So you see in the first case I am getting around 3400 and here 2100. So the step size is different. Is this clear how you can answer business related questions with the help of Numpy? Any doubts, any confusion? So we have a few more questions left. I think one more is left. You can try on your own fairly simple. Check the mood count when step count was more than 4000. Let's see other way around. Try to do it on your own. We are more or less done with the case study. Before I close this. In the next class we will look into pandas. How we can do data analytics using pandas. We will use all of them together. When we will do EDA, data visualization using charts, feature engineering, machine learning, logistic regression, statistical models. We will use these together. So make sure every subsequent class you come after revising what you have already studied. Because what you are studying today will be applicable in the next class as well. Is that clear? So please come after revising. Because at the end of the day everything is going to be a culmination of what you have studied. So things are going to pile up only. So it's better to keep on revising as regular intervals. That's going to help you out. Any questions, any doubts? Any questions? So we are more or less done with the case study. One question is left. I leave it to you for your homework. I will start with the next class one word. We are still preparing. So from the next class one word you should start seeing your lab sessions and assignments. Any other question? Any question? Anyone? That would be good. Cool. If there are no questions, now I want one volunteer who can come and take photos for attendance. So please, by all means, anyone could come. Yeah. Sure. Please go and click every photo. Take in groups like. Also I'm closing, ending the class and we can go for your attendance. We can turn on the lights.